Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Thanks, Kevin.
A lot of you remember in December when we had our investor day we presented a very clear plan and strategy to grow our businesses
that would produce a  to 15% earnings per share growth handily over this three-year horizon that we talked about in the plan. Our
confidence then and our confidence now about achieving that plan is really about our diversity of earnings sources, which I believe you
see in this quarter. It's the financial strength of this company because this is a company that makes guarantees to people that are way
out in the future. It's about the MetLife brand that pulls us all together and it's really the breadth of talent in this company, the people
that make this company come alive every day.
And so when you look at the quarter clearly, our premiums and fees were up 11.8% resulting in operating earnings up 33.6% from last
year. You also see our annuity deposits grew to $3.4 billion and here again, what the public is looking for is to do business with a
company they know and trust that can provide them certain guarantees or promises in the future and that's where Living Benefits come
into play as part of our business and from the growth of our business.
The Institutional segment, while we had some wind to our face last year, as we all remember talking about the retirement savings
segment, we had a little wind to our back, and Rob will talk in just a few minutes about that segment of the business as well as the
overall U.S. businesses.
Our spreads continue to have the same level over the last period of time. Bill Wheeler will talk about again, what our spreads look like.
We keep reminding everybody this is important to have good asset liability matching and manage our spreads and not worry about what
the actual rates are doing in the marketplace.
International earnings were also strong. We're having some early successes in Mexico however they are early successes. We still have to
go through the entire year but things look pretty good there.
And last but by not least, it's Moody's. Moody's as you know has moved Met's outlook to stable. We're a solid Aa2 company which is
important as we talk about our reputation, our brands in the marketplace and the guarantees we make.
So what I'd like to do now, because I look forward to your questions, is turn it over to Rob who will also make a few comments. Rob?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Go ahead, Liz.
 
Liz Werner Sandler O'Neill & Partners
Okay. And what you might expect to do above and beyond the share repurchase if there is anything you can do with the excess capital.
And then secondly, is it possible to quantify what you expect to achieve for expense savings this year recognizing that the first quarter
may have had some additional expenses related to the group contracts but hopefully getting a little closer to what you would view as
normalized expense run rate?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
This is Bob Benmosche. I must tell you that Eric Steigerwald, everybody says, "what happened to Eric, he makes a whole career out of
UREV?”
 
Ed Spehar Merrill Lynch
Well, is it your sense that this approach to the unearned premium or unearned revenue account that you've taken is conservative relative
to others or do you think it's a standard approach in the industry? Do you have any sense for that?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Lee, could you talk about the interest rates?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Nigel, don't forget, too that unlike, you know, very aggressive fixed annuity writers we have not been in that ballpark of an aggressive
fixed annuity writer. And having lived on Wall Street during the period of the ‘80s and watching what happened, I understand your
question from that perspective.
But also keep in mind that we have been very successful over the last ten years selling a variable annuity with an annual rate reset fixed
component of that variable annuity and so that's about  billion, Stan, would you say, of PPA deposits that come in the general account
and so those reset every year. So I think you can't look at the whole general account block and assume those are aggressively priced fixed
annuities. They're not.
So you won't see the disintermediation that you normally would see with rapid rate increases with a lot of aggressively priced and older
fixed annuities. So it's just not a problem I think MetLife faces compared to other companies.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
And, Nigel this is Bob Benmosche. We don't expect that to happen in the near future. We do not have any plans and we're not thinking
about it. So I don't think you should leave saying we're drying the powder and getting ready.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
I think just to -- you know, Bill gave you the top number, but from a bottom-line perspective I think it was a low six-digit number. I mean
it was a very small profit number and what's important is that while we lost that piece of it, and you can compete for some of this
business for breakeven, what's important is the work side piece of it which is very important has gone unimpacted.
So I think part of this is to early on is where we're not going to waste a lot of powder on things that just don't provide any real value and I
think that's where Bill is talking about being intelligent and being competitive about it as well. So I think overall it still is proceeding well
and we're still getting a lot of wins. So that's one loss but we have a lot of wins down there and we're going to work hard to continue that
pattern.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Colin, I just want to correct you. I think Stan will go through that. But one is, there was no, you implied there was a reserve release and it's
important that Stan goes through that because that's not the case.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
By the way Andrew, keep in mind that when Bill says  that assumes the world stays where we are today. Remember, robust sales,
what comes in, new minimums that have been rolled out, you look at the new minimums coming out of our settlement account, the total
control account and so on, as we have new minimums, we have some at 3%, we have a lot coming on the books now at 1.5. So as we
begin to look at those over time it extends it out if you were to really build a very strong projection model, so add that into your factor as
well.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Keep in mind, too, that, you know, when you look at the money that was written off and the fact that there was expenses that were not
coming through, Eileen and Rob and the team really looked at the structure and we did, in fact, reduce almost 25% of the agencies that
existed at New England because they just were not sustainable over time, and we were paying a lot of rent, a lot of overhead. So when
you reduce 25% of the agencies and you reduce the number of low-end performers this is outstanding results, and the fact that we really
have to have production but it's got to be production where it's profitable or we see light at the end of the tunnel, so major restructuring
went on here and it's a small number down relative to that restructuring.
Next caller.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Let me turn it over to Tim Journy. I must tell you though that we are in great shape, and the Board is very pleased with our performance
and we think we're going to finish it off and be really almost best in class as we go through this. We're pretty proud of what the whole
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Do you want to talk about the dollar amount we spent? Is there any way to quantify? I know we know the outside number, but do you
want to --?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, President, CEO
Okay, I think that covers it for everybody, and, again, thank you for joining us on the call and look forward to speaking with you all again
next quarter. Thanks.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
Bob Benmosche, Chairman and CEO, Rob Henrikson, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Bill Wheeler, Chief Financial Officer.
After our brief prepared comments we will take your questions. Here with us to participate in the discussion are Lee Launer, Chief
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Thanks Tracy and a lot of you may not have met Tracy yet but Tracy was our principal interface with all of the rating agencies and as you
know in the last few years that's been a very busy avenue for us to be traveling down and she did an outstanding job there and we know
she's going to do an outstanding job in this move also. So it's great to have you on the team and I look forward to working with you as all
of you out there should work with her as well. As you can see and has been reported we did have an outstanding quarter and it's been top
line, it's been bottom line. It's making sure we continue to make the right investments in the future while managing our expenses as well.
On investor day what we talked about in December is that we have a very clear plan and we've been on that plan for quite some time nd
we are still focused on that plan for the next three years and that is to make sure we continually improve our operating efficiencies and
continue to stay focused on growing our earnings in a range of about  to 15%. Clearly in the last couple of years we've had some head
winds and we've come out in the middle of that range. As we move into '04 we talk about seeing a little bit more positive outlook and in
fact that's what's happening. So we feel for this year we are going to be at or above the high-end of our range. So we are looking at
somewhere around a  to 18% operating earnings this year versus 2003.
We are very confident as we look into the rest of this year and into '05. A lot of good things are going well for our company. As you look
through what we produced here. And in fact what's becoming clear, again, is the diversity of the earnings streams, our businesses.
What's even more clear is the outstanding results of the thousands and thousands and thousands of people throughout this company
that are really moving in the right direction and balancing the need to grow earnings on a sustainable basis but improve our investment
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I can start and other people can chime in. With rising rates we think that has a very positive impact in sourcing to the business. As the
fixed income market becomes more attractive. I think we can sell more fixed annuities with shorter surrender periods and that would
attract more business. You know in terms of the existing portfolio, we have disclosed before that we did take a hedging position in
anticipation of rising rates and a flattening of the yield curve. So we're well positioned for that. And then the third point I would make is
that in one of our portfolios, you know, our TCA program and the group life segment, as short term rates rise it actually benefits earnings
in that segment so it helps to compensate for some other areas where there might be a slight if negative effect.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
Joining me this morning are Bob Benmosche, Chairman and CEO, Bob Henrikson, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Bill
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Good morning to everybody and as you can see we've had another very good quarter for our Company with net income up 23% which is
about  cents a share and this is just another strong quarter this year.
 
We've had a good year and we'll talk about that in terms of the fundamentals of our business. We've had a good year both at the
bottom-line and also our top-line growth continues to be strong.
And while we've had a good year, this quarter like some of the other quarters still had some tough wind that we had to face in that we
had flat equity markets, we continue to have a low interest rate environment, and quite frankly we had some pretty tough weather to deal
with in this quarter with the hurricane season down in Florida.
And I must comment that the Auto & Home Company, we've talked to you about this over the last several years, we've said that this is a
strategic part of our Company, it provides strong value and other product lines, and we also said that we would manage the volatility by
really looking at where our exposures were and managing that book of business very effectively. And while we had strong reinsurance
that did not come into play this quarter, and I will tell you that if you look at the results of the Auto & Home Company, you can see that
this is a strong part of our Company as we go forward.
I must also tell you that even though we had a tough quarter to come through, the Auto & Home Company did an absolutely outstanding
job in working with our clients, and we're the only Company reflected in our results this quarter, we're the only insurance company that
we're aware of in the state of Florida that had a seasonal deductible, so that our clients only had to pay one deductible, because part of
our value proposition to our clients is we want to be there for them when there are difficult times. And so that activity is also reflected in
this quarter.
But the strong quarter is really a result of the diversity of our earnings. We've talked about our breadth and depth as a Company, and you
can see that all of that is coming to bear in the three quarters so far this year and so we have a great deal of confidence towards our
annual goal of  to  earnings per share for this year.
Also, because of our strong earnings and our capital flexibility, we've been able to achieve, but we did raise the dividend, and it's an
annual dividend, keeping in mind, of  cents. And we're also continuing to focus on our shareholder value.
And we're going to do that through growing our earnings per share. You're going to continue to see us improve our ROE, and one way to
do that is to look at the amount of excess capital we have and you see that the board has just approved a $1 billion addition to our share
repurchase capability so we'll continue to bay back shares and of course, we've already announced the $200 million share repurchase for
this coming quarter.
So all in all we're going to do this and continue to maintain our strong AA rating.
I look forward to your questions and I also look forward to seeing all of you on investor day. Please keep in mind that will be December
6th. We have changed the hotel so please make a note, we're going to be at that time Marriott Marquis this year. Look forward to your
questions and seeing you at the meeting in December.
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Could you narrow that down just a wee bit for me, Ed? I'm not sure what you had in mind.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Look, right now I don't see anything on the horizon, quite frankly, but if, in fact, as we look at any acquisition, what I've said before, it has
to be right for us and right for our shareholders. It has to make sense for our Company and be meaningful enough that we would want to
do that and disrupt the kind of progress we're getting right now from what we have on our plate already.
So I don't see any unbelievable opportunities out there, and I don't think this is the right way to approach it. In M&A right now, it should
be a smart transaction. And so I don't see anything right now that says, wow.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I don't see any major changes. I think that the regulators are now working through how they deal with clarifying any issues that might
exist regarding disclosures and making sure that those are clearly understood, and I think there's enough regulation on the books, but I
think they have to look at it and make sure that all of us have very clear instructions about disclosures, and that's the only thing I can
think of at this point in time.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yep.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
In essence, Bob Benmosche again, we all have to keep in mind that you can't generalize these broad numbers as we think about how we
invest for portfolios and our asset liability match. So it's tough to deal with averages here with the size and breadth of product and the
Company. So I just want you to keep that that in mind.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
John, very simply, the process is an ongoing process where we have used external auditors, our internal auditors, interviews with,
extensive interviews with the staff that were involved in the sales process, and as a result of that review and our continuing review, we're
satisfied that we've not had any wrongdoing at this point in time.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Just as far as regulation is concerned, we have been a strong proponent of clearly when it comes to individual agents, I think it's essential
that what we have for the securities, or registered products, I think we should think about registering all individuals who interface with
the public in any way relating to financial matters broadly. And that's a tough challenge for a federal agency to do. I think it's important
that we all keep track of agents from a central repository. There are efforts underway to do that at the state level by linking the states,
 
but I think it's still, I don't think it works as well as would it if it were centralized.
Also, there's a lot of efforts that federal regulation would help in terms of policy forms, simplifying the process in somewhat greater
consistency across the states, but I think there's a lot of work going on in Congress right now. What's important is to find the right
balance between having strong federal support to simplify the administration and monitoring activities of individuals, while at the same
time the states are going to want to retain some control over the approvals of certain aspects of their products. So that's about all I can
give you as an update right now.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I think what you all keep doing is going back to the average. And I think what you need to think about is this is a spread business and with
[matched] assets and liabilities, we have a lot of different pools that one gets averaged in. So it's very tough to predict this Company on
an average rate.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman, CEO
The investor meeting, don't forget, December 6th at the Marriott Marquis. Thanks very much.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Thanks, Tracy, and good morning, everybody. We're pleased to report another great quarter for our company. It's really a great quarter
across all of our business segments. You can see there's solid growth in the top-line as well as the bottom line. So, in terms of EPS, we
come in at 3.36, which is just above the high-end of our range that we revised and issued to all of you last year. These strong earnings, I
want to stress this, is really a direct result of a very disciplined approach which we've been sharing with you over the last several years in
great detail . Presentations on investor day. And I just want to approach the underwriting. And by the way, it takes a while for discipline
and underwriting to emerge in profits, pricing as well as spread management.
So, when you think about that, I want you to put a little bit of this quarter in context, for example, and just one of the examples, retail
annuities. If you compare our sales this quarter versus third quarter, you can see we're up. If you compare us to the fourth quarter of last
year, you'll see we're down. What was decided last year and in the fourth quarter was to let people know that we're going to change the
pricing from  percent to  percent on a GMIB. That actually took effect during the first quarter of '04. So, when you look at us
year-to-year, you'll see that because of that pricing decision, you had an acceleration of sales and then sales returned to normal and
started to grow again in the second half, in particular, of 2004. What we're most pleased with is the persistency of our business. And you
look at our last rates. So, when you compare our annuity sales, you ought to look at our net sales.
We generated almost $4 billion of net sales in our annuity product line just in retail alone. So, when you look at our sales, you've got to
think about our pricing, think about our margin management and think about the retention of business because of the quality of our
company and how we're doing business today. Because of our operating results, because of our strong capital position, clearly in our
renewed focus on our businesses, for example, the selling of State Street, because we never could get to the right size, and selling it to
the right buyer, being BlackRock, our clients, what you see this renewed focus has clearly allowed Moody's, before the Travelers'
acquisition, to return us to stable. Now we'll see where our negative outlook again because of this transaction. But we're confident we're
going to execute that transaction very well. Another thing to keep in mind as you think about Travelers, it leverages across our entire
businesses, our investments in technology and so on.
We've talked to all of you about international. We talked about the fact that we're going to put money and invest money in international,
grow organically. But we also said to you we're going to be careful to make sure our profits continue at the right level, but there's always
going to be this investment which has a long-term effect to it because you don't see the profits for many, many years. This investment in
Travelers allows us to significantly grow our international footprint outside the United States and clearly what it does is it says we can
invest in this business and see it become accretive immediately. So, the investments aren't as long-term going forward as they were in
the past as we thought about this business segment. So, we're excited about where we are, we're excited about this company and the
people in this company have done an outstanding job.
We think the Travelers will take us to a whole new level, for them as well as for us, as we integrate the  companies. And bottom line is
we had another record year,  years in a row, and we're excited about '05, as well. So, let me turn it over to Rob and he will bring you up
to date on more details by the segment.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
It was relatively small.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Not interest margins, but the earned rate. It's the rate at which the accounts will accumulate on the fixed side --
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
below interest rate environment.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
John, you can't take the $150 million pre-tax and apply it to Travelers. You need to apply it to the entire company. For example, we hadn't
decided to grow in the independent distribution channel our life sales, which meant that we had a plan to spend a lot of money this year
to be able to hire people, get the people on board and begin to create sales. Because of this acquisition, we just received all of that. So,
we don't have to invest money that was in the MetLife plan. We had planned to invest a lot overseas and Bill's plan, he talked to you
about that on investor day. We don't have to take a lot of the money that he was investing and continue to invest it now. What we've got
to do is integrate what he has, rationalize what he has and focus on profit growth. So, that's money that would come out of the MetLife
plan, not out of the run rate, but out of the MetLife plan, which we shared with you on investor day when we gave you the guidance. So,
this is  million in total from both companies and again, we no longer have to make these investments which are long-term and seeing
them become accretive. They become accretive now. So, this is not going to come entirely out of the Travelers' organization.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
I don't think -- I can tell you we don't have anything further to report on that, other than what we've told you.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
It will have no affect on our business. The power of this brand, the power of this organization and the power of these people is being felt
everywhere. I guess the best illustration is we had a client that wanted to make sure our bank was really the MetLife Bank and they sent
us a $15 million deposit over the Internet. I think that's a good statement of people's belief in our credit worthiness.
 
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
You're welcome.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Andrew, we're going into the rides business! [ Laughter ]
 
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
t's very simple about the fact that if, in fact, we're having a good quarter, we have a powerful brand, and to the extent we're having a
great quarter, we can do more in terms of branding and building future value. So, you constantly want to be sending waves out there and
we have, because of the strength of our brand, the ability to say we will do something this quarter and we don't have to repeat it for 
more quarters and we still get the long-term benefit of the MetLife brand.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Do you want to say something, Lisa?
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, actually, you read me correctly. I would not -- I would not put this company's ratings in jeopardy. When we met with the ratings
agencies, obviously they have to say something and clearly their decision was do you see this as equally upside and downside? If they
don't see a big upside that we're going to -- and we're discussing a rating increase. But, they're not ready to say something about that
right now and we struggle with that but they will get there. But since they're not there yet, the probability is that it will stay the same or
go down. And therefore they have to, under their approach to ratings, put us on some negative outlook. But I am absolutely convinced of
is that that's just an outlook and I am absolutely convinced that the people of this company, the investments we've made, will get
executed on schedule as we've talked about the integration plan and I believe that we're not putting these ratings at risk at all. But,
people are gong to want to wait and see can we execute what it is we said we're going to do? And I have absolute confidence that we will
execute and the rating agencies will see the result and as we move into '06, you will see this company cooking at a whole new level with
all the engines moving forward. So, I am not, and I would not, put this company's ratings in jeopardy.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
I believe Colin is wrong.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
I believe Colin is very wrong, but he likes to give speeches so let me give you mine. The fact is, when I met with the agencies it was very
clear that we have plenty of time to prove to them we can execute this transaction. We have to make sure we get this thing financed
correctly, make sure we have the right numbers here and so we have time and they've given us time to get this thing executed correctly.
And I am convinced that this will not harm our ratings at all because we will execute everything we said we're going do.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
You're welcome.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Come on up, Tony.
 
Tony MetLife Inc.
All I was going to say just the projections that we gave them take that into account. It started -- certainly included that.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Mike?
 
Mike MetLife Inc.
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
And we're talking predominately domestically here.
 
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
On the international front it's a more complex question.
 
Bob Benmosche MetLife Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yep.
 