Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
 
I am joined by Robert Spoerry, our chairman and CEO, and Bill Donnelly, our chief financial officer.
I will start by covering some administrative matters, and I will then turn the call to Robert, who will provide you highlights on the quarter.
Bill will then cover the financials in detail, and then Robert will update you on current market conditions and our strategic initiatives. Of
course, we will have time for Q&A at the end. Now for the administrative matters.
First, this call is being webcast and is available for replay on our website. A copy of the press release we issued today is also available on
our website. You should be aware that statements on this call, which are not historical facts, may be considered forward-looking
statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied. For further information concerning issues that could materially affect performance related to forward-looking
statements, please refer to our filings with the SEC. We undertake no responsibility to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking
statements.
One other item -- on today's call we may use non-GAAP natural measures. More detailed information with respect to use of and
differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in the press release.
I will now turn the call over to Robert.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Thanks, Mary. I want to thank you for joining us today on this call. We are pleased with our first quarter results, and I will start by
providing some summary comments on the quarter.
We achieved EPS of $0.47 in the quarter, an increase of 15% over prior year. We are pleased with this strong result. Our sales growth in
the quarter was an increase of 6%, of which currency was a benefit of 3%, and our local currency growth was 3%. This was in line with our
 
expectation. We are especially pleased to see strong performance in the Americas. Our gross margins in the quarter were excellent with
 basis-point increase over the prior year. Finally, our cash flow generation fell below the prior year was in line with our expectation and
reflected comparison issue with last year. We remain on track for our full-year cash flow targets.
Bill will now provide more details on the financials.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Thanks, Bill. I want to start by adding to Bill's comment on sales performance and on our outlook for the remainder of the year. I will then
cover some developments with respect to our strategic initiatives.
Looking at our geographic markets, as mentioned at the beginning of the call, I was really pleased to see the strong result in the
Americas, plus a very solid performance with strong growth in almost all product lines. The growth in the Americas was above
expectations for the quarter, and we do not expect it to continue at this level for the full year.
The strong performance in the Americas helped to offset the slower-than-expected start in Europe. We expect to have positive growth in
Europe this year, so you should see improving performance in the coming quarters. In fact, order entry in our European industrial
business was quite good this quarter, which supports our outlook for improved performance.
Asia, in total, came in where we expected. China had solid sales growth, but it was below the very high level recognized last year. As we
mentioned on our last call, we expect growth in China this year to be in the low double-digit range rather than in the 20%-plus level that
we saw last year.
 
Last year, we were positively impacted in Q1 by the estimate of SARS, particularly in the first quarter of the year that carried on.
We do see evidence of China's economy quoting, especially on certain bigger government type projects. Our other businesses continue to
do very well in China. Of course, our strategy for China remains firm; that is, to capitalize on the growth areas in this region and to
leverage our low-cost manufacturing capabilities.
Now, turning to market conditions in our businesses where we had a slightly different mix to our sales growth than we expected at the
beginning of the quarter. I will start with the industrial business, which, as you have heard from Bill, was up strongly with 6% local
currency sales growth. The good performance was seen across most product lines, and geographically was particularly strong in the
Americas. I expect that we'll see some slowdown in the Americas in the coming quarters, and offsetting that, improving results in Europe
and Asia.
Our laboratory business started slower than expected. Analytical instruments had a very strong quarter, and our drug discovery business
had solid sales growth. Pipettes continued to generate solid revenue growth driven by the international expansion. Balances has a tough
comparison, but we expect to see this to improve in the coming quarter with the launch of our new line of high-end analytical balances,
and the upgrade of our basic cost-effective line.
As you heard, retail came in slightly below last year, which I point out was a strong quarter and as we were rolling out a major project in
Germany at that time. We continue to have solid interest in our global food-retailing platform, UC, which I discussed on our last call. It
would expect to have some growth in the low to mid-single-digit range for the remainder of the year.
Taken altogether, we remain comfortable with the guidance previously given to you for local currency sales growth of 3% to 5% for the
remainder of the year.
I will now update on strategic development. Innovation, especially around products remains the core of our strategies. This quarter, we
have many examples of important new product launches. We are now launching our high-end analytical balance XP. This is the last
major piece to complete and upgrade of our balance line, which was started two years ago. XP is aimed at the regulated market, like the
pharmaceutical industry, and provides significant values to our customers with the design features such as unique suspended weigh-in
grid design, which provides greater speed and accuracy. It also has built-in warning system to prevent inaccurate use of the balance and
easier man/machine interface. Because of its better accuracy, it reduces the required minimum weight, thereby creating substantial cost
savings for our customers on expensive chemicals and substances. The XP is combined with our lab software, it gives us a clear solution
advantage in this very important segment.
Two weeks ago, we participated at the Interpack Show in Germany. This is the largest show of its kind in the packaging industry, and it's
held every three years. Our product-inspection business launched many new products at this show, which I want to highlight to you
briefly. First, we introduced the X series of check weighers. Check weighers are about half of the product inspection business, and are a
very profitable part of our offering, and we have a very strong leadership in that line. Most of our check weighers are sold into food and
pharma manufacturing facilities, and they made some very important innovation in the X series that we think are very well received from
customers.
First, the customer wants to have simplification of their inspection processes. We have done a few things to facilitate this need, including
incorporating a very intuitive operating terminal with our color touch screen, which is easy to operate and requires minimal training. The
terminal is designed to control multiple inspection devices, therefore reducing the number of operator interfaces of the plant flow. You
can easily integrate the metal detector or other inspection devices and control them from the control of the check weighing. Even the
mechanical design of the check weigh has been improved to allow for easier physical integration of multiple inspection devices.
The X series also has the most modern software platform in the industry with an open-system architecture, easy connectivity, and
standard interfaces to typical plant communication protocols like Fieldbus, PROFIBUS, and Ethernet.
Finally, the X series has the most sanitary design in the industry with a stainless steel open frame design. It is the only check weigher to
 
have IP69 weighting between that it holds the highest possible rating for water and [unintelligible]. This allows for easy cleaning with a
high-pressure water hose down. The X series is the most hygienic check weigher on the market, which is extremely important to our food
customers where sanitation issues are critical.
We also introduced at Interpack our new x-ray system, which we call "T-10." X-ray is a small but fast-growing segment within the product
inspection division. T-10 represents our effort to offer the market a stand-up and easy-to-operate solution as compared to customized,
highly complex systems, which dominated the market so far. T-10 will be priced approximately one-third below the previous x-ray
product and will focus on contamination detection and mass control. We have made a significant effort to make this product
better-suited for the large food market by systematically adding a color touch screen, increasing the durability of its design, simplifying
its use, and serviceability, and have even made it better-suited for the wash-down environment to a better, easy-clean design.
The last item we will be introducing is a new family of metal detectors under the Profile name. As a reminder, metal detector is nearly
half of our product inspection sales, and we have a very strong and profitable position under the Safeline brand. Profile pulls many of the
same themes as the X series and the T-10. It's easier to operate, has color touch screen, allows for better connectivity with the plant
information system, and is more easily integrated with other equipment from the plant floor. Profile is the first metal detector in the
market because the single pass setup and automatically clustering the product. These two features alone can reduce the setup time by
as much as 80%. The Profile also includes self-monitoring for full conditions. This is a great feature because of the customers. It is also
about up-time. Self-monitoring will eliminate most up and down time. If you further reinforce Safeline's reputation for having the highest
up times of any metal detectors in this market.
In addition to technology innovation, we have been talking to you for several quarters regarding Project Spinnaker, which is aimed at
accelerating our organic sales growth rate. As you know, sales growth in the most important driver for earnings growth. Through
Spinnaker, we believe we have a significant opportunity to expand our market share to accelerate the replacement of our installed base,
and to increase the productivity of our sales force for more effective sales and marketing. We also believe that through Spinnaker, we can
improve the productivity of our sales force, our service force, and through better use of automation tools.
Let me take a minute to update you on current focus areas for Project Spinnaker. First of all, on pricing. As Bill already mentioned,
pricing has played an important role in our margin expansion in this quarter. We have increased service pricing across the board, and
product pricing in most lines in most countries. We are not doing this process blindly. In fact, in selected few segments, we have been
more drastic in pricing in order to be price competitive. But, generally speaking, we have chosen to raise our prices.
Secondary of Spinnaker's lead generation, where we have the ambitious target for increasing the number of leads significantly, we
continue to invest in various forms of lead generation and remain convinced that this method will succeed. Successful lead generation
program will be the most important part in improving sales productivity and this metric that we will monitor closely. At the heart of lead
generation is our segment marketing initiatives and all our business units have now an action plan for segment marketing in course of
the year.
In parallel, we have expanded our telemarketing resources to follow-up on lead qualification and direct marketing. Initial results are very
promising. We believe that as the program continues to gain momentum and the techniques become more refined, we will be able to
raise the productivity of our sales efforts.
Another area we will be addressing with Spinnaker is sales through indirect channels. We refer to this initiative as our "volume strategy."
We have always been very successful in direct sales of high-value solution as evidenced by our strong market shares. The volume market
is also a significant size but we need a separate business model for this market, and have developed a task force for the implementation
of that. They are currently evaluating supply chain, channel strategy, product mix, marketing programs. We are confident that this will
open up new market opportunities for us in the future.
Finally, with respect to field automation, we have formed a competency center to support the automation of the field organization. New
automation tools, like CRM, have already been rolled out to the field organization in past years. We have now selected a tool for the
automation of our service business, and that with a certain software modification, we will roll it out globally.
 
As you can see, our strategic initiatives remain right on target. Before I open for questions, I want to summarize what we discussed today.
We are pleased to have achieved our financial targets for the quarter. Sales growth was on track, and we see strong improvements in
gross margin, which led to a 15% earnings growth. We remain optimistic for the remainder of this year.
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
The softness in Europe, indeed, was partly in lab, but that's also partly in retail. Maybe first commenting on the retail piece -- in retail, we
actually had a very strong first quarter last year, and that strong quarter was based on the major rollout we had with a big customer in
Germany. Now, the last part, you know, is currently more the traditional pharmaceutical biopharma industry, and not really the academic
sector, where we were hurt. As you know, the academic sector is, anyway, a small part in our global mix.
We have had European customers reach -- did actually, really, not invest much in the first quarter and they say that they wait 'til they see
the year develop before they're going to release and, in that sense, it was a little difficult. But also last year we had a very successful start
with the new laboratory products in Europe. We rolled them out first in Europe before we rolled them out later in the other parts of the
world. So it was partly also comparison issue.
I would expect that in the lab in Europe things will improve because we're going to have very fascinating new product launches, as I just
explained before. The XP analytical line is just one of many new products we're launching. We have actually new PH meters, we have new
titration equipment, and that all is just happening, you know, this week or partly already concluded. So we should see those benefits
coming in the coming quarters.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
First of all, the first quarter we saw high single, low double-digit growth in China, and that's a fine achievement if I compare that to the
first quarter last year where we had the soft carryover, as I mentioned before. Our expectation is that this government call-down
programs, while they are effective right now, will hopefully be a little more relaxed in the second half of the year, and through that we
should see good growth coming back in the second half of the year in China.
We also continue to make aggressive investment in China -- maybe not so much just in our infrastructure, but really kind of
strengthening our sales networks throughout the country. China is a big country, and we don't have a strong presence in each and every
region of that country. So we make that investment and, of course, that also should help us continue the growth back there.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
The slow start we had came really mainly from Europe. The U.S. business actually was good, solid in the lab. If I look at it more by
product line, the analytical instrument did well, so did Altacam [ph]. It was more on the balance side. The balances were slightly down
globally versus last year. I would say that, really, the typical effect we see when we announce new product lines. When we announce new
product lines, very often customers would know that and wait 'til they see the new product before they buy. But I also explained just
before, you know, the impact of maybe some investment stops in the European biopharma companies.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Bill, do you want to take that question?
 
Bill Donnolly
Sure. In terms of the laboratory and the industrial businesses -- actually, all three businesses this year -- we entered the year expecting
that we'd be in the mid-single-digit growth rate for all three. I think we're off to a slower start in retail and a slightly better start in
industrial, but they should all be kind of in that range for the full year.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Derik, of course, this is a question, which we fight with almost every day. You are absolutely right. Our product lasts forever, and the trick
to trigger to replacing these is innovation. And, of course, this innovation, which we are providing to our customers, we need to provide a
return on the investment. Maybe I should use now the XP balance product, which we just launched and try to articulate to you what kind
of value propositions there are in that product.
Whenever somebody does a measurement on the balance, they need actually to appear to U.S. pharmacopoeia in the regulated
application. This will tell you how you determine the minimum weight you can use the balance for. We have, today, with the XP,
significantly more accurate balances, which is a big deal, because we said you can reduce the minimum weight to what we had for people
had used so far -- significantly below what competition can do.
Chemical substances, which they weigh, can be sometimes very costly -- can be 10, even 40,000 per gram. You can imagine that can be
translated to big cost savings. Then another big feature the product has, it has kind of an automatic control on the setup and in case
something is not set up properly, actually, you cannot work with the product. So it adds tremendously to the safety. People often do a job
on a balance, and actually the balance is not set up properly, and so they actually had the wrong results. We have seen the new product
incorporated as in the technology, which can detect whether it is properly set up. So that's another big, big feature we have in there.
The third one, the balance, is actually much faster than previous technology. We're awfully excited there. The new tool prepares
compounds for screening properties also, highly repetitive work, very often labor-intensive. Of course, if you can do the job significantly
better, you can save a lot of labor cost.
So these are the challenges. We need to bring this value proposition constantly to our customers, and that way I think we have a very fair
chance to rake [ph] up the replacements.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Actually, Fisher and VWR are very important customers for the low-end Mettler-Toledo balances already, and they are long-lasting
partners, and we have been both very successful working together.
However, this may be something, which we don't exploit in every part of the world to its full extent. And when I look at our offering, you
know, we certainly have typically designed a product but also increasingly, due to the Chinese low-cost capabilities, we have strong
low-end offering. For this low-end offering, we need other forms of marketing, distribution, and service. Of course, to some extent,
Ohouse is playing in that -- our second brand for balances, and we can certainly to another business level gain many more market share
in these low-end markets. This is, by the way, not only true for laboratory products, I will say this goes across also some of the industrial
and the retail products.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
LabX reception in the market is excellent. I guess you recall from previous statements on the titration equipment, actually, probably 35%
of the products are, to date, sold with LabX. What concerns the balance piece, we are not yet in significant volume, however, we have
very significant interest from the customers. The decision-making process here is just a little longer because it is now also in IT. But the
prospects are very promising, and I am very convinced this is going to become a success. Again, particularly when I combine that with the
new balances -- these new balances, as you recall, they have much improve man-machining to face, the color touch screen and through
that, of course, we can much better integrate that product into centralized LabX workstation. So, Darryl, if it's only for the optionality that
people know that we have it, and they can buy it at the late point, it's already a great sales tool today.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
Maybe the way we look at a year is, of course, based on order intake, but that's not the only guiding principle, I think. It starts earlier and
we, of course, know the inquiry levels -- the inquiries concerning the quote level, and, of course, as long as the probability of turning
quotes into orders remains the same. That's a good forecasting way.
I, of course, on order intake, can tell you that we have the [unintelligible] of a couple of weeks. You know we have typically order from six,
seven, eight weeks, so it's not really deep into the year, but from all I see in terms of order intake we carried from last year into this year,
order intake, we also filled up in Q1, we remain really confident for the rest of the year.
Yes, you are right, we are typically a little conservative as we start the year, knowing that usually you'll not see every problem around the
corner, and certainly now the case, you know, we did hope a little better improvement to see in Europe, and that didn't really come
through and, for that reason, our conservative guideline, as you call it, probably was the right thing to do.
Nevertheless, I would expect that Europe gets better. We have very strong orders, particularly in the industrial business in Europe, and
that certainly will help in the near future.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
In the industrial business.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - President and CEO
In terms of countries, you know, probably France is still a tough market. The other markets seem to be in okay shape.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
 
welcome you to the call this afternoon. I'm joined by Robert Spoerry, our Chairman and CEO; and Bill Donnelly, our Chief Financial
Officer. I'll start by covering some administrative matters. I will then turn the call to Robert, who will provide you highlights on the
quarter. Bill will, then, cover the financials in details, and then Robert will update you on current market conditions and our strategic
initiatives. Of course, we'll have time for Q&A at the end.
Now, for the administrative matters. First, this call is being webcast and is available for replay on our website at www.MT.com. A copy of
the press release we issued today is also available.
You should be aware that statements on this call, which are not historical facts, may be considered forward-looking statements for the
purposes of Safe Harbor Provision under the Private Securities and Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. For further
information concerning issues that could materially affect our performance, please refer to our filings with the SEC. We undertake no
responsibility to release, publicly, any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments.
One other item on today's call -- we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed information with respect to use of and
differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the press
release. I'll now turn the call over to Robert.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Thanks, Mary. I wanted to thank you you all for joining us, today, on this call. We are very pleased with our second quarter results,
particularly the improved local currency sales growth and it's a very strong increase in our EPS, after, of course, adjusting for one-time
items which Bill will explain later on.
Our sales gross in the quarter was an increase of 7%, of which currency was benefiting us 2% and we grew in local currency by 5%. We
are especially pleased to see better performance in Europe, which was [indiscernible] with most of our laboratory and industrial product
lines in Europe showing good growth.
 
EPS, after excluding the one-time pipette litigation charge and investigation costs from last year, was up strong 13%. Finally, our cash
flow generation was solid in the quarter.
Our outlook for the remainder of the year is very positive and we are about efficient to achieve our financial targets for the year. Bill will
now provide more details on the financials.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Thanks, Bill. I want to start by adding to Bill's comment on sales performance and on our outlook for the remainder of the year. I will then
provide an update on selected strategic initiatives.
 
Looking at our geographic markets, as mentioned at the beginning of the call, I was really pleased to see the sales growth and the
improvement of sales growth in Europe in the quarter. In Europe, sales were solid, both in the laboratory and industrial product line with
transportation and logistic being very strong, in particular. Retail was below last year as they faced very challenging comparisons. Expect
to see improvements in our European retail business during the remainder of the year. Overall, across all businesses, expect sales in
Europe for the full year to be in the range of low single digit.
Sales growth in the Americas came in pretty much as we expected. Industrial growth was solid, but that's expected. We saw it below the
very strong level we had in the first quarter. Retail has a solid growth, which was better than in Q1. As we look at Q3, order intake on the
industrial in the Americas looks very solid.
In terms of Asia, China came in as expected. They face tough comparisons with the prior year. China has strong backlog entering into Q3.
Japan and southeast Asia had very strong sales growth in the quarter. And we don't think we will continue that -- that that will continue
for the rest of the year.
Now turning to market conditions in our different businesses. Laboratory had a strong quarter and this, despite a very solid quarter last
year. Balances as well as Analytical Instruments were the principle growth drivers. Drug Discovery was down, slightly, in the quarter, but
has a much better backlog than at the same time last year. It continued to see strong demands in our Process Development Area with
continued weakness in our Discovery Business.
Industrial had another quarter of solid growth. Industrial growth in Asia was strong and our Transportation Logistic Business globally
had outstanding quarter. As we've not spoken about this business recently, I thought I would provide brief update on the business.
We've been a pioneer in the development of the [Indiscernible] and basic capture technologies for the transportation and logistic industry
for many years. And we have the most accurate and highest throughput solutions in the industry. Our solution help freight carriers
recover revenues through [indiscernible] pricing, based on dimension, as well as weight. Our solutions also have operational cost savings
and help, of course, the information of the [Indiscernible].
Sales growth in the second quarter was strong, both in the U.S. and Europe. In the United States, dimensioning is a more mature
technology and carries focus is more on the improvement of the read rate, the ability of the system to read accurately the bar coding.
They are adding more readers, demanding faster and more accurate solutions and increasingly looking at camera-based systems, which
gives two dimensional capabilities. We have [indiscernible] the radio solutions to address these needs.
In Europe, the market dynamics are somewhat different. The technology adoption of the dimension is not mature. Furthermore, we see a
lot of consolidation in this market as many big U.S. carriers look to expand the geographic presence. Our opportunities in the business
includes Asia, which is owned a small portion of the total business now, but has tremendous opportunities for growth.
You also see opportunities selling to warehouse or logistic companies who want to install dimensioning instruments so they know they
are being charged correctly. They have need for systems which are smaller and more flexible than those used. We are holding out such a
solution in several markets in Europe. Although our Transportation and Logistic Business is small portion of the overall industrial
business, it has a strong growth dynamics.
Finally, a word to retail. As I said before, retail was down in the quarter. We select challenging comparison in the second half of the year
and based on our strong project pipeline, we would expect to see modest growth in the retail for the remainder of the year and low single
digit growth for the full year. That's all I wanted to cover in terms of the businesses.
In terms of our strategic initiatives, I want to provide you an update on Project Spinnaker which, as you know, we initiated about year ago
with the goal of improving our organic sales growth. Most of you know that the more than 75% of our product lines, we have the number
one global market leadership position. Even so, our world market share costs all our products is around 20%. So we believe we can
increase the market share by increasing that -- the effectiveness of our sales, service and marketing organization. In the course of the
 
Project Spinnaker we identified many opportunities and for the time being, we narrowed the list to four focus areas; namely, segment
marketing, regeneration, field automation, and pricing.
Today, let me talk -- take you through what we're specifically doing in one of these areas, namely, in the area of regeneration; and also
have your measuring the progress on this initiative. Since the first quarter of the year, we are measuring leads in our sales organization
throughout the world. Our goal is not to just obtain great number of leads but rather, a great number of high-quality leads. We're also
tracking the source of leads, which includes leads from our service organization, from e-mail campaigns, seminars, direct mail
campaigns, exhibition, trade shows or our telemarketing departments. We also continue to closely track the lead generation from our
web track form.
In addition to tracking leads, we're implementing marketing initiatives to generate more leads. As you know, one key initiative to
generate more leads is segment marketing. Since the beginning of this year, we've added  new segment marketing campaigns in such
areas as cosmetics, snack food, flavors, [Indiscernible] and the chemical industry. Our segment marketing campaigns have proven to be
very successful in generating new leads in sales.
Our initiatives to increase our leads include significant increases in telemarketing, or providing incentives to our service organization.
Finally, we are also expanding our electronic lead generation to enhancing our web consent through e-mail campaigns, online ads and
expanding the use of key word in search engines.
Now, of course, you wonder about the results. The results of all of this effort is significant increase in the number of leads. In those units,
that we have [Indiscernible] along with our Spinnaker implementation we are seeing very significant double-digit growth in the numbers
of leads. We are convinced that the increase in the number of leads will increase our sales momentum.
Project Spinnaker is more directed to the top line growth, but also, as you know, we have defensive strategic initiatives which will help us
to improve our cost effectiveness and also efficiency of our working capital, including our efforts around supply-chain management. Our
goals in supply-chain management are two-fold: To reduce the cost of managing our inventory, as well to reduce the inventory levels.
Last year, we expanded our procurement initiatives to include the full supply chain to gain greater efficiencies of costs and assets. This
made many good progresses and are now very short with starting the operation of our North American logistic cup in Ohio. In addition to
cost savings from a more centralized approach, this move will help us to reduce inventory levels. We are already seeing improvement in
our inventory terms but see further opportunities to increase the inventory term to five times.
On the procurement side, we continue to be able to offset price increases with savings in other areas. Overall, our material purchasing,
our material costs are flat, despite inflation and pressure from the field and other commodity price.
In summary, we are very pleased with the result of the quarter and the progress on our initiatives. Our sales growth has improved, and
order entry or backlog as we enter Q3 is very solid. We remain cautiously optimistic for the remainder of the year. That's all I wanted to
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Hi, Darryl.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Yes. Happy to do that. Progress on that equation is excellent. We're probably there at the percentage of  to 40% of the instruments
being sold in conjunction with Lab X. On Balances we have many pilot installation in all key markets -- long and good profit rate. It's a
very clear differentiator and also, as you know, very key for the push our new products. The value proposition of Lab X is really strong, in
combination with the new Balances. And of course in that sense, we not only interested to see it on the progress of Lab X for Balances
but also impact it has on the new balances itself.
In terms of the Balance business, frankly, I was very happy with the growth we've seen in the quarter. In spite of a difficult comparison to
the previous year. I think that it shows that the new product are very well-received. Hopefully, we can continue to build on that in the rest
of the year.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Yes, of course. Maybe just for everybody, as part of this termination of the contract with Gilson, we have, now, of course to find alternative
solutions. We have comparable products which are more economic, which we have sold outside of the U.S. and, of course, just now
launching these product in the U.S. We have on those products, many factory costs which are, frankly, much, much below the purchase
price we had to pay to Gilson beforehand and, of course, selling those products.
We are very pleased with the acceptance of these products in the U.S. market and we are optimistic that we are going to kind of protect
our operating profits. Though might lose -- or we will lose some sales volume, but we'll sell our own products and because we
manufacturer them, we have, also, the manufacturing margins. And in spite of some sales decline, they'll, of course, enjoy the better
margin and hopefully help to us remain on the high profitability level.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
No. It's unclear to us.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
I mean, as Bill mentioned before, of course we keep our options open. And of course we're considering to further appeal. But, of course,
for the moment, the situation is clear and we are selling what we have.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
First, the full-out guidance is on the higher end of the range.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
And, I always did say, in a normal economic environment we can go in the range of  to 6%. And I think, what we have shown here in the
quarter is good proof of that. And with all of the other things we do with respect to Project Spinnaker, among others initiatives, but also
new products, I'm really optimistic this is very doable.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Hey, Peter, I think, first of all, the Pharma results have been encouraging in channelling Q2. And, yet, our [Indiscernible] in Q2, better
than in Q1, and in that sense we're certainly optimistic, yes.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Same as we told you in the past. In terms of businesses, we focus on opportunities in the field. And to find Packaging Inspection, but that
would be metal detectors, check weighers or x-ray or related technology. The reason why we say that, these products have great value
proposition to the custom, in terms of productivity improvement and product safety, food safety. We see there are some opportunities to
further expand.
Then, number two, of course, in channel what we'll call or Llaboratory business, just adding on other product lines. And, then, number
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Thank you.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Okay. Of course, as you all know, European retail was difficult after the conversion of the Euro, where a lot of the trading was replaced.
And, therefore, the market declined just after that, significantly. We had some quarters, with growth, others where we had also some
decline. But the European retail business, for example, last year, single digit growth, so that wasn't that bad. In Q1 and Q2 this year we
had difficult comparison versus last year, because last year we had one big order. the timing of this project is just a little different. The
outlook for Europe, actually, for the second half is showing decent growth, meeting our range and we'll be okay with the number.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Yes. Again, just to repeat myself, we had a mid-single digit growth last year. in total.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
What we're doing to get this -- we have a lot of new products with a lot of new capabilities [indiscernible], which I mentioned many times
before. Bill did also mention that we had some pricing pressure from customer in that business, we actually make big concerted moves
for product cost reduction and we have very specific targets, but not only targets. we actually have very specific, concrete measures which
give us a lot of belief that we're going to meet the targets. And we're going to have good product cost reduction to come in the course of
next year on those product lines.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Yes. A good part of the growth comes from the P&L business and you know, frankly, the backlog is very strong in that business -- the
backlog this year. With all of the new products we have I'm optimistic, as well. And, then, last not least, I mentioned that very briefly, so
far, we have been very much focused on the big transportation companies in that segment. But when we start to look at the other
opportunities in that business, like, the smaller warehouse shipper segment, but also the OEM system integrator we see additional
opportunities. We, actually, having ready with new products for those markets. And furthermore, Asia, frankly, a market which is
[indiscernible]the technology, but we know from many of our bigger companies, the bigger companies, again, those global express
carrier and they are ready with big investment coming from eastern Asia.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Hi, Rich.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
We were around that number, at the high-end, yes.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Welcome.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Order entry was very strong.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Yes. I can give you some ideas there. Probably 15% of our sales are -- group sales from products manufactured in China. We're constantly
transferring more production to China, probably in three years from now, the number is going to be 25% or so.
Of course, aside from just the manufacturing, the procurementing, which I mentioned before, works also in global sourcings and
investment plans to source more and in China, in terms of parts, components or sub-assembly and had, of course, a positive impact.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
And manufacturing capacity and we have three plans. We have the plans, not only the manufacturing capabilities, but also R&D
capabilities. We have in the range of tons and tons of plenty R&D guys in China. These guys design products for the local market but
these products, which are designed for the global markets, are very often both complementary low-end products for the low -- global
[Indiscernible] distribution.
 
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Very welcome.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Actually, I think part of it we already saw that quarter. Our sales growth, clearly, has been better in Q2 than it was previous quarters.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo International - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, bye-bye.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
 
welcome you to the call. I am joined by Robert Spoerry, our Chairman and CEO, and Bill Donnelly, our Chief Financial Officer.
I will start by covering some administrative matters. I will then turn the call to Robert, who will provide you highlights of the quarter. Bill
will then cover the financials in detail, and then Robert will provide commentary on our outlook and business. Of course, we will have
time for Q&A at the end.
Now for the administrative matters -- first, this call is being webcast, and is available for replay on our website. A copy of the press
release we issued today is also available on our website.
You should be aware that statements on this call which are not historical fact may be considered forward-looking statements for
purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. For further
information concerning issues that could materially affect performance related to forward-looking statements, please refer to our filings
with the SEC. We undertake no responsibility to release any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or
developments.
One other item -- on today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed information with respect to use of and
differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in the press release.
I will now turn the call to Robert.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Thank you, Mary. I want to thank you all for joining us today on this call. We're very pleased with all aspects of our financial results for the
third quarter of this year. Our sales growth was strong at 7%, which was both the recorded growth rate, as well as the local currency
growth rate. All key businesses demonstrated growth. Our food retailing and transportation and logistics were particularly strong. In
 
addition, sales growth was robust in all geographic parts of the world.
Our operating profit and cash flow generation was very strong, and our EPS growth excluding onetime items, was excellent at 24%
growth.
As we look to the future, we are cautiously optimistic for the remainder of this year and for 2006. We will explain our outlook in more
detail later in the call.
Let me now turn it over to Bill, who will take you through the financial results for the quarter. Bill?
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Thank you, Bill. I will begin by providing some additional comments on Q3, and then I will recap some of the key initiatives from last year.
Let me start with our lab results for Q3. We saw solid demand for our analytical instruments, particularly our thermal analysis and pH
meters. Process analytics as well had another solid quarter. In balances, we continue to do quite well on the high-end as our products
sold for tangible value to customers, particularly those in regulated markets. On the low-end or entry-level products, you do see some
weakness. As part of Project Spinnaker, we have a task force developing a strategy to address this end of the market -- not only for
balances, but for all of the low end products as well. They are evaluating supply chain, channel strategy, product mix, and marketing
programs for this customer base. As we begin to implement this strategy, I would expect to see better growth from this end of the
market.
You heard from Bill that pipette sales were basically flat in the quarter. This reflects reduced pricing levels from our standard jazz (ph)
pipette products sold in the U.S. As a result of the litigation earlier in the summer, our distribution agreements with (ph) certain
third-party manufacturers plan to chase (ph) pipettes was canceled. We are now selling direct in the U.S. our own manufactured
products. Although the price are lower, our margins are higher because we managed back (ph) rather than just distribute those products.
The last piece of our laboratory business is drug recovery, which had a strong quarter and did defy (ph) a strong quarter from a year ago.
Most of our ultra cam (ph) business is focused on the process development and scale-up needs of large pharmaceutical customers.
In process development, chemists and engineers determine how to manufacture a drug that has been discovered earlier. We have a
leading market position in this area, and are generally considered the standard in the market. Our solutions consist of automated lab
reactors, which simulates the manufacturing process in the laboratory vessel, as well as real-time analytics, which consist of probes that
monitor in reaction that monitors the reaction in the vessel. We see the strong dynamics of this business continuing as pharma
 
companies have tremendous incentives to accelerate this process and move the drug through the manufacturing quickly. We recently
received a sizable order of automated lab reactors and analytics from a large pharmaceutical customer. A portion was shipped in Q3 with
the majority of it to be shipped in Q4.
Turning now to the industrial business, which you have seen had a great quarter. Growth was driven by our transportation and logistics
business. We spoke about this business on our last call, so I won't cover it all again. But hopefully, you remind (ph) that we are pioneers
in the development of automatic dimensioning and basic capture technology for the transportation and logistics industry, and that we
have the most accurate and the highest throughput solutions in this industry.
This is a project business. And we have several projects in both the U.S. and Europe that contributed to the growth in the quarter. Our
outlook for this business is solid. But we do recognize that unlike most of our other businesses, there is variability in sales growth by
quarter.
Our product inspection business had also a strong quarter. We have a record number of new products in this business, as we have
significantly revamped our product portfolio over the last year. The upgrading of the product portfolio allows us to continue to globalize
our offering and to move ahead of competition in many important design areas.
Recently, at the packaging show in Las Vegas, we unveiled to the North American market a new metal detector and a new checkweigher.
We also launched a more standardized X-ray product to complete our range in this market. We view the dynamics of this market as
strong, driven by the food manufacturers' desire to protect their brands from exposure to consumer health and safety concerns as well as
government regulation.
Our high-end industrial business, which combined industrial scales and terminals with software packages, is also well. These solutions
help customers manage data, such as transaction processing, formulation, batching, and support statistical process control. Finally, our
standard industrial business performs well, driven by the infrastructure spending in China.
Now turning to retail, we had the growth of 14% in local currency. We have been talking for the last few quarters about the opportunities
in this business. Somewhat like our transportation and logistics business, part of this business is also project related. And therefore, it
has variability to its sales. We had several projects in Europe that we have been expecting for some time. In the U.S., we benefited from
legislation surrounding nutrition labeling, as well as the growth in our data management software business. We expect solid results in
the retail in Q4 as well.
That covers my comments on the quarter, and now I want to add some comments on our strategic initiatives for  and beyond. As Bill
already mentioned, we're cautious on the economy, and will continue to monitor it and adjust (ph) our plans accordingly. However, we
have many positive strategic initiatives that we believe will yield benefits in 2006.
Let me cover the highlights, beginning with Project Spinnaker. As most of you are aware, we have the number one position in the vast
majority of our products. And yes, our worldwide (ph) market share is around 20%. We believe we can increase this market share by
increasing the effectiveness of our self-service and marketing organization. Project Spinnaker identified many opportunities, and we are
now focused on four of them -- namely segment marketing, lead generation, field automation and pricing.
We are continuing to drive the segment base approach to marketing across all our product lines. So with this effort, we're identifying new
segments that can be added to our marketing initiative.
We're also generating more and more leads via the Internet, through significantly increased telemarketing resources and also others (ph)
we've met (ph). We are closely tracking and measuring these leads to understand the ultimate effectiveness of turning these leads into
sales. We are in sales more disciplined in our discounting practice, and thereby are achieving better pricing.
Finally, we have put a task force together to identify ways to improve the productivity of our sales and service force through more
automation in the field. We believe we are in the early stages of this initiative, and we continue strong execution. Spinnaker shall
 
contribute to the growth for many more years.
The next strategic initiative I want to cover is the development of emerging markets. Our primary focus continues to be on China. We
have increased the percentage of goods manufactured in China from 3% in  to nearly 20% by the end of this year. Our strategy in
China is twofold -- first, to capitalize on growth opportunities in the domestic market, and second, to provide low-cost production for our
global distribution channel.
We see (ph) continued opportunities, and have committed to build a manufacturing facility in China in the course of  and early
2007. This facility will replace an existing one and nearly double the capacity of the existing site. The cost of the facility will be in the
range of $10 million, and we are confident it will yield excellent results.
Looking forward, our investor business will continued to benefit from infrastructure growth in China. As GDP per capita increases, we
foresee significant growth opportunities across our higher end business, as demand for laboratories instruments, product inspection
equipment, and similar products should grow significantly. In short, we feel strong, and we feel strongly that we will continue the sizable
opportunities for growth in China.
Another emerging market area that we see opportunities is India. We have had our Company in India in place since 1990, which focused
on our industrial business. And we have worked through a distributor for our laboratory offering. Given the growth in this market and our
desire to more aggressively develop market, we will soon begin selling direct also for those laboratory products. We already have
doubled the size of our direct salesforce in anticipation, and see solid opportunity for growth in this region.
New products continue to be a central part of our strategic initiative. As we look out over the next twelve months, you'll see many new
launches of products and upgrades through the software offerings. We're also focused on cost, and have several initiatives to reduce
product costs and improve the management and logistics of our supply chain. I've already covered our low-cost manufacturing in China,
and we think we can save more than 30% in manufacturing costs.
In supply chain management, we're working on fully integrating our supply chain from development through logistics. We believe that
significant opportunities exist through further supply consolidation, low-cost country sourcing, and the drive (ph) internally to share
components and modules across the product lines. We also believe we can further streamline our logistics processes, which are quite
global through the growing importance of our Chinese operations. Both (ph) together, we see opportunities to continue to reduce
product, product costs, and process costs and reduce inventory investments in the coming years.
In summary, you can see we have many initiatives in place. And with solid execution, we believe we can achieve solid growth. With the
benefit of these strategic initiatives and the economic environment similar to today, I believe the 5% sales growth and the dollar (ph) --
3.20 to 3.25 in EPS, which translates into 15% EPS growth, are ambitious but reasonable targets for next year.
Before I open the line for questions, I want to comment on the press release we issued this afternoon, concerning the 10b5-1 plan for the
sale of my  options. The plan calls for the sale of 867,000 expiring options in the coming months (ph). These options were granted
at the time of the buyout from Ciba-Geigy, and we were not a public company. And they will expire in 2006. At the time of our buyout
and later times, I also purchased 346,826 shares of Mettler-Toledo stock, which I will own and have no intention of selling.
Of course, I remain fully committed to Mettler-Toledo, and the sale is being driven by the pending expiration of the option. My direct
holdings in Mettler-Toledo in the form of stock and remaining options represent more than  times my annual base salary. I wanted to
communicate directly to you my intentions. And of course, you will see the required filing over the course of the coming months as the
sale transactions are completed.
That is all what we have from our side. And I now would like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
I think the low-end of the market is just more price sensitive. There are of course more competitors who have low-end products. It's not
our nature to compete too much on price. And I think maybe it's also a reaction to the very strong offering we have on the high-end, as
we are so strong on the high-end, many of our competitors just shifted much more of their focused to the low-end, which takes a little bit
of the strength we have.
As I mentioned, this softness in a smaller part, actually, of our total market is recognized. And we see actually quite a bit of opportunity
to address that part of the market in a highly effective way. The contacts (ph) have been worked out. The strategies are in place. And we
will soon start with the execution. And I'm pretty sure we will put some things quite differently in place, and through that establish
competitiveness and leadership for the part of the market.
Again, I want to remind everybody the core of our business is always the high-end. And the low-end is something which never has been
our stronghold, but more kind of an adjacency -- but I think an adjacency that will get increasingly competitive.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
I guess I can comment that maybe by segment, by industry, probably both important to maybe even talk about customers -- individual
customers. Pharma spending in general, I think, it's slightly reduced. However, it depends heavily by individual customers. I think some
pharma companies are actually doing quite well. And there, we see good investment levels. And maybe there are others who are more on
the cost savings, and therefore, the demand isn't so strong. Other industries pay -- I think cosmetics, chemical, food companies -- pretty
good. I think certainly slightly better than what we have seen before.
Geographically, not much difference. I think the lab business -- certainly, as mentioned, it's very well in the U.S., Europe -- maybe a little
softer; but from the order intake we had in Europe, that's actually -- that's pretty encouraging. And Asia, as usual, did well.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
I think pharma was all actually altogether okay -- maybe not as strong as all the time.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
We'll find out. And the reason why I say it that way -- the reason for really changing the situation in India was that our distributor always
helps (ph). He does a hell of a job, and we have a very high marketshare. And my experience is when we step into a market and try and
supply our own methods, realize that the market is usually significantly bigger. (multiple speakers)
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Well, actually, that distributor handles all of our laboratory business. On the industrial side, he has already in place our own
organization. That organization was put in place in the late '90s. Of course, the beauty of that is that we just can bolt on the lab business
on the existing infrastructure. And as I mentioned during the call, we have been quite aggressive in adding people and setting up the
organization. I expect substantial growth from India next year. And for substantial growth, I think there can be a couple of million dollars
over the year.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
No, it was several customers in the U.S. and in Europe. It was mainly ground transportation. And the applications for these typical help
applications that we will do the tracking of parcels, combining weighing technology, dimensioning technology, barcode reading, visual
technology -- all integrated in one system across all in motion with high throughput.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
It really depends on how you segment the market. If you look at these big transportation companies and their big hubs, no -- that market
is quite well penetrated in the U.S. So in case they buy -- if you have projects like we had, then it's productivity-improvement driven, and
also the technology integration.
In Europe, however, it's not nearly as penetrated. Actually, the UK was the first market to move towards that technology. France followed
afterwards. We have heard from one customer who has moved in Germany. And hey, usually, if that starts, others will follow, and still
apply the same pricing methods -- namely, a pricing method which is based on the so-called dimensional weight. So you take weight
information and volume information.
Now this is -- you know, the big carriers and their hubs -- now of course you can take this then a step further into a market segment
which we call the warehouse and shipping market. And that part of the market, frankly, is not developed at all yet. And we are just
launching for that part of the market new product which then -- typical manufacturing companies produce the warehouse and shipping
applications. The desire of everybody is to capture those data as early as possible, and in that sense, of course, there could be a
significant opportunity also in the part of the market.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
I think that opportunity is probably three or four times larger than the existing opportunity. It takes still, of course, time to develop it. And
you should not think that it's just going to happen at once. I think that will be a gradual process.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Bill, if I may interrupt here, I just give an example -- let's go to retail. We may have a customer who feels this UC platform we have is
great, and it fulfills most of his application needs, those which we have planned to -- built into the product. But he may say, hey, I need
another feature which is relevant for my business.
And to give you an example, actually, we have one customer who feels he wants to use the display of the retail sales for cost promotion,
but then during the front (ph) of the counter (ph) you buy some meat -- actually, on the display, it would say, when you buy meat, you can
have actually a coupon for the buying. So that is what they call cost promotion. They do these programs to sell more at the same time.
Now, what that would mean -- we then need to somehow enhance the system software capabilities. We would do that traditionally with
specialized partners. Such a project check can be very well-managed. It starts with the requirements definition. Then of course once we
know that, we know the cost. We have a premonitoring system. And of course, timelines -- if he then has to do rollout (ph), we also do
first testing in our labs. And we make pilot installations with the customers, and the customer is happy when we go into further rollout.
Hey, with that I just want to tell you this project adaptation are mostly software integration, as Bill mentioned before. And they're kind of
-- they build on what we have. And in terms of the risk involved, it's really not significant. Now with that, maybe I want to give it back to
you, Bill.
 
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Yes, but we always still have projects.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Probably, if you look at year to date, you get a couple (ph) capacity (ph).
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
A good part will be 2006; some, 2007.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
Not that much.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
As usual, we work on of course acquisition opportunities. We are, as I mentioned many, many times, very careful in stepping through an
acquisition. The screening will be a strategic fit. Can we operationally absorb it and manage it? And last, but not least, will it make
financial -- is it financially sound?
Of course, we announce these acquisitions when they're ready to announce. So I cannot really be specific on anything. I also want to
reiterate, and you have seen that with the guidance for next year, we're not dependent on acquisitions. We will have very solid earning
growth based on our organic growth. The 5% we have given you translates into 15% EPS growth for next year. At that speaks (ph) on the
operating leverage we have. And there is also a quite significant focus in the organization on this organic growth. This organic growth --
we know what we buy, and translates into very handsome profit growth.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
But that being said, of course, acquisitions will be part of our future, and we will announce them when they're ready to announce.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo - Chairman, President, CEO
I would like to thank everybody for joining us tonight. You certainly have heard that we're very pleased with the quarter. We hope you're
pleased as well. And with that, I want to wish you a very nice evening. Thanks for joining us today. Bye-bye.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
 
want to welcome you to the call this morning. I'm joined by Robert Spoerry, our Chairman and CEO, and Bill Donnelly, our Chief Financial
Officer. I will start by covering some administrative matters and then turn the call to Robert who will provide you highlights of the
quarter. Bill will then cover the financials in detail and Robert will provide commentary on our outlook and business. Of course we'll have
time for Q&A at the end.
Now for the administrative matters. First, this call is being webcast and is available for replay on our website. A copy of the press release
we issued today is also available on our website. You should be aware that statements on this call which are not historical facts may be
considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied. For further information concerning issues that could materially affect performance related to forward-looking
statements, please refer to our filings with the SEC. We undertake no responsibility to release any revisions to forward-looking
statements as a result of subsequent events or developments.
One other item, on today's call we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed information with respect to the use of and
differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the press
release. I'll now turn the call to Robert.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Thanks, Mary. Good morning, everybody. I want to thank you for joining us today on this call. We are very pleased with the strong finish
we had in  as evidenced by our Q4 results. Sales growth in local currency was 7% and was driven by robust demand for our
laboratory products, continued growth in China and another strong quarter in food retailing. We are very pleased with our gross margin
expansion and the solid increase in operating profit recognized in the quarter.
Our EPS growth was again excellent and we are pleased to have achieved a 20% growth in EPS for the full year 2005. Although we
 
remain cautious on the global economy, with the strong results we had in Q4 we are revising and increasing our targets for this year
2006. We will explain this in more detail later on the call. Let me now turn it over to Bill who will take you through the financial results.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Thanks, Bill. I will start by providing commentary on  and the increased outlook for this year before I discuss our initiatives to drive
growth and profitability in 2006. Last year we generated in local currency a sales growth of 5%. As Bill mentioned, we continue to feel
comfortable with a similar growth level for what you saw in last year and that is local currency growth in the  to 6% range.
In terms of geographic breakdown we would expect growth in Europe and the Americas to be in the  to 5% range. In Europe we saw
trends to improve during the course of the year and expect these trends to continue. In the Americas we do not expect our transport and
logistics and food retailing business to be as strong as in 2005, but expect solid growth in our laboratory products, also our other
industrial productlines. In Asia we would expect growth in the 10% range with solid performance across the board.
Let me add some insights by business area. I will start with lab. In  we had solid growth across most of our productlines as a result
of the many new products we have launched. We have a number of new product launches again this year and would expect similar
customer level investment as we had last year. Overall we expect growth in the  to 6% range for the laboratory business, a little better
than what we saw last year.
In our industrial instruments we would expect sales growth in the  to 5% range. We had unusually high growth in transportation and
logistics business in  which we do not expect to repeat, although we do expect solid growth in the other industrial productlines this
year. Product inspection growth was more modest in  and with the benefits of the full-year run rate on the numerous new product
launches we would expect improved growth in the packaging inspection business in this year. Taken together we would expect similar
growth rates for industrial in  as we saw last year.
Finally, in food retailing, this business has a little more volatility than our other businesses. In  we ended the year with 8% sales
growth which is at the high-end of the  to 8% range we expect from this business. Our strong performance in  was driven by the
solid execution of our strategic initiatives. Let me highlight these initiatives which I believe position us for continued growth in  and
beyond.
I will begun with Project Spinnaker which is now firmly rooted in our organization. In fact we have seen benefits in our  results. The
aim of this initiative is to increase our sales growth rate, enhance sales productivity and gain market share through excellence in sales,
service and marketing. Spinnaker's growth rate initiatives with many components. We started to implement in late  and will have
new ideas for execution over the coming years.
On the last call I spoke on our progress in segment marketing and regeneration. Today I would like to comment on the area of pricing. It
began by analyzing our pricing down to the customer and sales (indiscernible) level. With this additional transparency we identified
opportunities to adjust our pricing to find the right balance between volume and price as well as additional opportunities to improve our
realized prices by changing certain processes.
The first processes to be changed were to provide our sales force with additional training on value selling. For example, we developed
Internet-based tutorials and toolkits to help them better communicate and sell value for our products to the customer. The second
 
process change is to implement a structured and rigorous process control around discounting. We have rolled out both of these changes
to some parts of the organization and we will continue to roll out over the course of the year.
We believe pricing continues to help our gross and margin expansion. We expect more progress also this year. Furthermore, we have
raised list prices substantially across all products effective beginning of January. We estimate we will realize a net increase of
approximately 1% across the Group. In our laboratory and industrial offering we expect a somewhat higher realization. Our retail
business, however, continues to face a challenging pricing environment and our expectation in that business is that we will not realize
price increases for this year.
Next I would like to give you an update on service. In  service grew a little less than our product sales. In recent years service has
been able to grow faster than product sales and we expect to see continued growth in the years to come. As you know, service is also
quite profitable with margins above the product business. With this background of high growth rates and high margins we are
implementing a series of initiatives which should help us to capture the opportunities in service.
Now I want to explain how we intend to capture these opportunities. It starts with clearly defining the service products we want to sell.
Over the last year we have made a conscious effort to integrate the development of our service products into the product development
process. When we launch a new product we want to ensure we are launching also a related service offering. Hand in hand with this
approach is the development of marketing brochures and communication documents that articulate the scope and value of our service
offering.
These service marketing tools help our salespeople to affectively sell our service offering upfront with the product sales. We clearly
recognize that the best time to sell a service contract is at the time of the product sale and we are now better equipped than ever to do
this. Also in the service area we are unbundling our calibration offering in order to be more price competitive in the standard
maintenance segment.
Calibration has always been a core service offering and customers are now looking for additional calibration services to meet various
regulatory and quality standards. As calibration becomes more value added we are separating it from our standard offering in order to
more effectively market and price this offering. This also ensures that our standard maintenance offering remains price competitive. In
summary, with our global network in which our customers can obtain uniform services throughout the world, we believe we are strongly
positioned to capture opportunities in this market.
The third strategic area is the one focused on the emerging markets and our strategies (indiscernible) on China in which we have been
operating for  years. We had another year of solid growth in  and in  we estimate that China will become our second largest
end-user market. We see continued strong growth opportunities as Western customers shift manufacturing to this region and domestic
companies grow with the local needs as well as positive opportunities from the exports.
To better accommodate for this growth we are making important organizational changes. Mainly [breaking] up our current Chinese
organization into a new marketing organization and a separate producing organization. This is the same organizational concept we have
a place in the Americas and in Europe. The marketing organization can focus their initiatives on capturing more opportunities by
expanding our regional coverage in China and implementing many of the Spinnaker's proven practices namely in the area of segment
marketing and regeneration.
Our producing organization on the other side can further enhance our cost competitiveness, quality orientation also improve our product
development efforts. As we mentioned last quarter, we will begin to replace the oldest of our three facilities with an expanded one,
nearly doubling the capacity of the existing site. We believe these changes will enhance our already strong market share and further --
and provide us further manufacturing efficiency thus allowing us to continue our excellent track record in this region.
The fourth strategic focus area is the one of technology leadership and in  we continued to reinforce this leadership with a broad
range of new offerings, particularly in the balance and product inspection business. We have a solid pipeline as we enter this year as
evidenced by the upcoming launch of a high-capacity microbalance that has the ability to weigh with unprecedented accuracy various
 
types of fine substances or chemicals. There is no comparable product on the market with this type of accuracy and it allows customer to
(indiscernible) more samples directly in the container thereby reducing losses and improving productivity without sacrificing accuracy.
Another lab innovation soon to the launched is a high-speed system to calibrate single and multi-channel pipettes, the only compact
industry of its kind in the market.  times faster than conventional balances for calibration, this instrument and its use of (indiscernible)
software speeds up a time-consuming process by allowing the calibration of all channels of a pipette being calibrated at once and
guaranteed precision and accuracy of the pipette being assured. Pipette manufacturers, service providers and pharmaceutical and
biotech companies can increase productivity, optimize service and minimize support costs and gain more secure results to meet their ISO
requirements. These are only two examples of new launches, we have many other introductions in the course of this year and our pipeline
is quite strong.
Our fifth strategic initiative is that we're working diligently to improve our cost structure in a sustainable way. On the procurement front
we have been able to offset commodity related increases with savings in other areas. We continue to consolidate our supplier base and
are increasing sourcing components from low-cost countries. Although our supply chain has great complexity, we have been able to
increase our inventory productivity. As you heard from Bill, we had further improvements in our IPO in the fourth quarter and also for the
entire year. So this initiative as well as several others we believe we can gain cost efficiency and improve our working capital productivity.
In addition to our strategic initiatives our financial strength gives us excellent position for the future. We believe our sales growth,
operating leverage and earnings growth are a big advantage for us. Given that we don't have significant capital requirements our cash
flow when combined with our strong balance sheet provides us with excellent ability to repurchase the shares. As Bill stated, during
 we repurchased 3.2 million shares or 7% of our outstanding shares. We will continue to use our free cash flow for share
repurchases as we believe it's an excellent way to return value to shareholders. Our balance sheet is strong and provides us also with
ample capacity for acquisitions.
That is all that I did want to cover with you. And I would like to have the operator to open the line for questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
In the U.S. we had a very good performance in Q4 and in Asia, China had very solid growth. I think, Bill, you need to back me up here,
Japan -- Japan was slightly down. But really the main growth in China or the growth in Asia came from China.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
I think some changes were made by how they are spending the money. Typically the fiscal year for many companies ends in March. So
you typically have end of March a big spike. Last year, however, the law was changed and so many companies have also changed their
spending patterns which leads to a better start into the new year after March, but somehow reduced spending a little later in the year. I
think in general Japan is okay in terms of the economy and the overall investments cycle I think is more just a change in the pattern in
last year.
 
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
'05 was extraordinarily strong. We had really very, very strong growth driven by some big projects and these projects are just more
volatile. You may have one or two more this year and then one or two less next year and that's just the way it is. But the fundamentals are
still very solid off of that market.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
In terms of M&A, adjusting our growth trends, our main area of focus will be for laboratory products, just expanding our product
offerings. Then also in process analytics where we will be interested to expand the parameters we offer to the market today
(indiscernible) packaging expansion -- packaging inspection. You could also imagine further capabilities for controlling certain quality
attributes in packaged goods.
In terms of the acquisition pipeline, maybe also a few comments here. In the last two years we have been really launching this Project
Spinnaker with a key objective of maximizing the organic growth. I think we see very good evidence that that program works. In that
sense we believe also organic growth is something which provides a fast return for the investment of shareholders and therefore takes a
lot of focus for just on the organic growth. That does not mean that we are [excluding] acquisitions for our future -- not at all. But of
course it tells us that we are not dependent on acquisitions. We have a very good organic growth already without having to pursue
acquisitions.
In terms of current activities, of course, as usual we announce matters when they are ready to be announced.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Not being too specific, but this increased R&D spending will be mainly for laboratory products.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
What you have seen in the past, that of course our laboratory product portfolio has grown over the years either through in-house R&D or
adding technologies and products through acquisitions. If we enter a new field we always enter it with the objective of coming out a
leader in that market and we have seen proof of marketshare correlating to return on sales. So in that sense we are not entering into
segments where others are very strong and the market positions are well taken. And maybe some of those productlines you just
mentioned before probably are well taken position and it would make much sense for us to try to compete with some of the big guys
there.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Both growth rate across the productlines and also the industry segments we serve.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
That target building is in facility. We -- industrial and retail products are going to be at capacity. We should have new premises up and
running in April '07 and we'll double the capacity for the industrial and retail businesses.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
It's hard to say, but based on past growth we had we believe it's going to be sufficient for the next five to ten years. But it's also building
and designing in such a way that it can be easily expanded in case we need it earlier.
 
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
I think we'll do a little better than in past years. And we said two things -- we have certainly made a much bigger effort to have all the
price increases in place by 1st of January this year. And then internally we're doing a better job of the managed discounts of salespeople
and discounting behavior. So I think the net realized number is going to be slightly better than in the past.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Our business is mainly a replacement business. And I think of the many new products we have is of course always a trigger to the
replacement cycle. And we have really an excellent offering of new products on the lab side which, frankly, I hope is also going to help us
this year because it always takes a while until you have fully launched a productline and every customer knows about it.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Our European improvement I don't think was much different from what it was here in general. Of course we have a few big projects which
may -- in P&L for example,  really strong in Q4 and made a difficult comparison. But our European business I think is greatly
improving. We have seen an uptick last year and we will continue an uptick this year.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Just quoting activity, lead generation -- these are all indicators.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Thank you very much.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
Yes. The primary objective of Project Spinnaker is to improve of the organic growth of the Company. Of course at the end of today I want
to be totally transparent. There are many, many things affecting the organic growth of the Company. For example, of course the
economy and the industry cycle, but then also new product launches and of course our own sales and marketing program. So if you were
to ask me how much Spinnaker -- how much is new product that's going to be a difficult question for me to answer. But there are other
ways I can check the effectiveness of Project Spinnaker. And you asked about lead generation.
Lead generation is actually way of year on year. We probably had  to 50% more leads last year than the previous year and we want to
do the same this year again. But then also maybe to a another part of your question, yes, Spinnaker also has productivity improvement
elements. In the past, for example, we (indiscernible) those leads to salespeople. Today, in most market organizations we have several
marketing departments which do prequalify leads and so that makes the salespeople use leads in a much more effective way and freeing
them up from a lot of calling and letting them have o more time in front of customers.
So there is a lot of good evidence that really Project Spinnaker is working well. And maybe a soft factor which I would not want to
underestimate, it aligns all the Company's objectives behind one common target. And it aligns all the (indiscernible) business lines,
product lines, market organizations in the very same direction and I think that adds long-term a very tremendous positive benefit for the
Company.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
We certainly have seen benefits of that in 2005. Spinnaker, as I have said many times in the past, is also [churning]. We are working on
selected topics at this point in time, but we have an inventory of ideas which we will activate at the right point in time, mainly once we are
really (indiscernible) of those first ideas and it's time to move on to the next one. But we of course want to do this in a very controlled
manner.
 
Robert Spoerry Mettler-Toledo Intl. - Chairman, President, CEO
I'd like to thank you again for joining us this morning. As you certainly feel from our comments, we are very pleased with our performance
in the fourth quarter and also the entire year 2005. I think we have a realistic outlook for the coming year, we are cautiously optimistic on
the markets and we believe that we can continue to grow the Company.
Our foundation for the future continues to be rooted in the hallmarks of our franchise, a franchise which can be described by market
leadership, global presence, a diversified customer base and also product portfolio, leading technology and the culture of delivering the
 
highest quality products and services around the globe. I think with continued focus on execution we will be well-positioned for growth
this year and beyond in the future. Again, thanks a lot for joining us this morning and we wish you a very pleasant day. Bye, everybody.
 