Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
You're getting very, very good.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Jim. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You notice they Gamal Aziz's name was mentioned as he was introduced as the
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. I will report on the first quarter results for Mirage Resorts and beginning with Bellagio.
Bellagio's first quarter EBITDA was $110 million, after adjusting for the writeoff expense of $11 million relating to the demolition of the
tram between Monte Carlo and Bellagio, and, of course, in preparation for CityCenter. This was the single best quarter in Bellagio's
history, up 4% on an apples-to-apples basis versus last year. Hotel revenue increased $4 million or about 5%, and -- on a 5% increase in
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Well, I will take a stab at that, Larry. The arrangement we have with the tribe is an excellent one for both parties, we believe. We are
going to provide consulting services to the tribe in the areas of development, management, marketing operations and for that, we're
going to receive fees. We haven't disclosed those fees yet and we will do so in due course. We are excited about working with them and
obviously having a flag in Connecticut and MGM Grand will be of great value to us and we believe to them from a cross marketing
opportunity. So on one level, we will be receiving fees for helping them build out further this destination resort in Connecticut. On the
second level, we're entering into a joint venture. And that joint venture's job is to go out and look for deals that could be high return deals
that, perhaps are too small for MGM MIRAGE to look at, since we're involved in a lot of deal flow and we have a lot to go, and a lot to do
right now and perhaps are not of the type that Foxwoods currently can tackle, both from a management or financial perspective. And so
that joint venture strengthens and we'll go out and look at deals. To the extent that we find deals that we like, MGM MIRAGE has agreed
to invest into the joint venture up to $200 million.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
About  a month.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
Harry, this is Bobby Baldwin. Gamal mentioned what his was and it looks like the second quarter bookings are very strong for the Mirage
component of the Company. We are up 5.5% looking at the second quarter over the second quarter last year.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
Yes, we're up 3% in rate and 2% in occupied convention rooms.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
Well, Bill, it's about 2.4 million square feet in residential component. As you know, CityCenter's entire cost is budgeted to be around $7
billion. The total proceeds from the residential component of the CityCenter is about $3 billion. So obviously, we would net that against
the overall development costs for CityCenter.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
No.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
And David, I think -- I think that Gamal is right, that competition is alive and well in Las Vegas. All of our buildings are continuously in the
process of being brand new with concepts and ideas and restaurants and clubs and new entertainment in the form of shows. And I think
that the public is excited more about Las Vegas than ever. And we don't see that trend changing.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President, CEO, Mirage Resorts
Yes.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Actually it would be CityCenter East. Did you move Atlantic City on us?
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
It's a significant piece of property. We are very interested in developing CityCenter, as you know, here and it's going to be developed in
Las Vegas. We think it will be a modified form of that, on reasonably close acreage,  acres compared to the  acres we have here,
would be a perfect and fitting responsibility for that. As I indicated on our earlier telephone call a couple of quarters ago, we couldn't
have found a better partner than Boyd Gaming. They are great people and they're doing a wonderful job on our behalf and their behalf at
Borgata but frankly, the enhancement of the value of Renaissance Point is such that we have indicated to them that we've decided we
want to move ahead and when we do move ahead on our own with that particular piece of land. That is our intent and I think as we get
further down the road here in the next year, year and a half, we get get far more serious than CityCenter East.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
 
Lanni, Chairman and CEO of MGM MIRAGE; Jim Murren, President, CFO and Treasurer of MGM MIRAGE; Bobby Baldwin, President and
CEO of Mirage Resorts; John Redmond, President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts; and Gary Jacobs, EVP, General Counsel and
Secretary of MGM MIRAGE.
Participants are in a listen-only mode. After the Company's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [OPERATOR
INSTRUCTIONS]. Now I will like the turn the call over to Mr. Jim Murren.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
No, they haven't.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Thank you very much, Jim, and good morning.
Earlier today we reported diluted EPS of $0.50 for the second quarter of this fiscal year. This is a record for the second quarter, exceeding
last year's previous record of $0.48 per share and in fact is an all-time record for any quarter in our Company's history. And our earnings
of $0.50 per share was exactly the guidance that we gave on April  during our last earnings call. Just briefly on some operation results,
more detail will come from Bobby and John, but net revenues increased 4%, and you if you look on a same-store basis it would be 5%.
We're very comfortable, we had very strong slot results with slot revenues up 4%. Baccarat volume increased 19% on a same-store basis,
indicating continued strength in the high end segment. Operating income was $428 million which was an increase of 13%, and property
EBITDA was  million, up 15%, with excellent margins, and Jim will cover that in much more detail shortly.
From our perspective, the trends in Las Vegas are excellent. We feel that our competitive position has never been stronger than it is
today. As an indicator of that, I'll note that MGM MIRAGE has the three highest EBITDA-producing properties on the Las Vegas Strip in
the second quarter, with combined property EBITDA of over $280 million at Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay, and in
fact Bellagio had all-time record for any quarter in the history of -- since the opening of Bellagio. Now, not everyone has had a great
second quarter here in Las Vegas. We've seen that in recent reports. We're pleased to say that we had an excellent second quarter and
are very comfortable with that.
On a development update we continue to make substantial progress on key development initiatives. MGM Grand Macau remains on
schedule as we've indicated for some period of time now for a  fourth quarter opening and remains on budget. Work continues at a
substantial pace on the permanent casino resort at MGM Grand Detroit and on the rebuilding of Beau Rivage which will reopen later this
month on the 29th, which is the one-year anniversary date of the Katrina disaster. And of course, project CityCenter is the heart of our Las
Vegas development. We remain very bullish on Las Vegas, and we expect significant growth to continue in this marketplace. We believe
our strategy of disciplined growth here in the United States and abroad continues to move forward. We continue to reinvest in our
existing portfolio with strong returns on targeted projects such as new restaurants, night clubs, and the very exciting LOVE show at the
Mirage, which recently opened. And we remain focused on maintaining a conservative balance sheet and financial flexibility to prudently
invest in new projects as they become available to this Company.
I'd now like the turn the meeting over to Jim for a few more comments on the financial results.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
That is correct.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone.
Q2 was a very strong quarter across the board for all the MGM Grand Resort properties. Realizing the Mandalay properties were owned
for only  days of Q2 prior year, all results that I'm going to discuss are for the full quarter for comparability purposes when I refer to the
prior Q2. Start with MGM Grand. Of course it had a very solid quarter with EBITDA of 75.2 million versus 85.6 million in Q2 prior year.
EBITDA in Q2 '06 was negatively impacted by a $5.8 million charge for preopening expense related to the opening of the first tower of
Signature and a $1.6 million write-off to make way for a new bar concept. The property continues to see strong demand as evidenced by
the record quarter in slot revenue and near-record revenues and rooms, food and beverage. Speaking of records in history, the second
quarter marks the first closing of a condo hotel unit in the Company's history with  of the  units in Tower  of the Signature closed
as of June 30th. Approximately 65% of the closed units have been placed in the rental program. We expect the remaining units to close
by early August. For the quarter, we recognized a gain related to said closings of 27.9 million, the remaining gain for Tower  of 26.2
million will be recognized in Q3 '06. The room product is, of course, a very high quality suite that we expect to get a premium rate. Initial
customer response to this product has been exceptional, but due to the limited number of rooms available for the quarter, it's too
preliminary to provide ADR and occupancy guidance. With regards to Tower 2, we expect closings to begin in November and December
'06, as we previously mentioned with an estimated gain in excess of  million. Tower  to date is 83% sold and expected to be
completed in May 2007. With regards to the convention market in MGM Grand, demand remained very strong with ADR up
approximately 8% in Q2 and expected to be up approximately 4% in Q3. Convention room nights in Q3 are expected to be up an
incredible 67%.
Moving over to Mandalay Bay, Q2 was another exceptional quarter of Mandalay Bay, with [inaudible] 76.8 million versus 77.1 million in
Q2 prior year. Negatively impacting the quarter were write-offs of 2.8 million, mostly related to the closing of the wedding chapel and a
restaurant. Excluding the write-offs, the property had the best results in the history of the property. The catalyst for the impressive
improvement was an increase in occupancy from 90.9% to 95.7%. The increase in occupancy of approximately 21,000 room nights led to
record revenues in rooms, food and beverage, and retail. Additionally, slots realized double-digit growth in win. With regards to the
convention market of Mandalay Bay, demand also remains very strong with ADR up slightly in Q2, but expected to be down slightly in
Q3. However, we expect convention room nights to be up an impressive 36% in Q3 at the property.
 
Moving over to Luxor, it had, of course, an outstanding quarter, with EBITDA of 41.4 million versus 40.5 million in Q2 of prior year.
EBITDA for the quarter was negatively impacted by the closing of Hair Spray which resulted in a $4.2 million write-off. The management
team at Luxor continued to do a fantastic job of driving occupancy from 96.5% in Q2 '05 to 98.3% in Q2 '06. This occupancy increase
coupled with a 10% improvement in ADR to $132 led to the highest room revenue quarter in the history of the property.
Moving to Excalibur, Q2 EBITDA of 35.7 million was the highest ever achieved versus 30.9 million in Q2 prior year. This excellent quarter
was driven by strong results across all departments leading to record net revenues. In particular slots were up 10%.
In Detroit, Q2 was very strong. That property continued its strong performance with EBITDA of 38.5 million versus 38.8 million in Q2
prior year. The current quarter EBITDA was negatively impacted by the amount of 2.1 million, which relates to the increased gaming tax
of  basis points that went into effect January 1, '06, this year. Slot revenue for the quarter was up 7%. In addition to the strengthening
results, construction on the permanent facility continues to progress smoothly and ahead of schedule with an expected opening date in
Q4 '07.
Borgata, quickly. Boyd obviously provided information on the property and the expansion of their conference call. We are extremely
pleased with the performance and the impact to date of the first phase of the expansion. The early results are tracking our expectations
and we look forward to operating uninterrupted for the foreseeable future.
I will now turn it over to my colleague, Bobby Baldwin.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone.
I'll, of course, report on the second quarter results for Mirage Resorts. My report will include highlights for Bellagio and the Mirage and
also construction updates on Beau Rivage and CityCenter. Bellagio's second quarter EBITDA was  million. It was the highest quarter
ever recorded for Bellagio and was 34.5 million or 36% more than the second quarter of '05. Gaming revenue was 24% higher than prior
year. Table games drop was up, being led by a 17% increase in baccarat drop versus last year. That was also a second quarter record for
baccarat drop at Bellagio. Slot handle was also up 8%. Hotel revenues were up  million on an ADR increase of $10. RevPAR at  was
up $11 or 5% over the prior period and was the highest second quarter RevPAR in Bellagio's history. Finally, Bill [McBeth] and the
management team at Bellagio have been able to decrease the operating expenses as they've experienced a full year of operations with
the new Spa Tower, and Bellagio was successful in reducing these expenses. Payroll expenses decreased by 4.4%, which help lead to an
EBITDA margin of 38%, a 690-basis point improvement over last year.
EBITDA at the Mirage for the second quarter was 41.7 million, down slightly, 2.7 million, from last year's due to a $4.2 million expense in
preopening associated with the LOVE show prepared by -- or performed with the Cirque du Soleil group. The Mirage continues to break
hotel revenue records by posting  million in the second quarter, the highest of any quarter in Mirage's history. RevPAR was 172, and
that was up $6 or 3% compared to last year. Capitalizing on the success of the new restaurants, lounges and night clubs, all of which
opened within the last year, the Mirage food and beverage division had revenue increases of 25% quarter -- this quarter over last year's
comparable quarter. There's more to come later this year with Japonais, a gourmet combination of Japanese and European cuisine
scheduled to open in August; and Revolution, a 7,000 square foot Beatle and Cirque du Soleil themed ultra lounge scheduled to open in
the fourth quarter at the Mirage Casino Hotel. LOVE, the highly-acclaimed collaboration between the Beatles and Cirque du Soleil, had
its grand opening on Friday, June 30th. The reviews have been great, and we're very excited about the show's success. In fact, the show
continues to receive a standing ovation with every performance. The preview period between June 2nd and the regularly scheduled
shows -- the preview period began June 2nd, and the regularly scheduled shows began on July 3rd. July's show occupancy is running
90% and is expected to continue to improve due to the strong advance ticket sales.
Update on Beau Rivage. Beau Rivage will reopen August 29th, the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. At this point, the final touches are
being made in preparation for this very special date. The entire property has been upgraded to give Beau Rivage a more updated and
stylish appearance. New amenities include a completely renovated hotel tower, the addition of a poker room, and three new gourmet
restaurants. Beau Rivage will open with 2,120 slot machines,  table games and  poker tables. All food and beverage outlets will be
 
open except for the three gourmet rooms, which will open in the fourth quarter of this year. Six retail outlets will be open with the
remaining seven to come online as they are finished throughout the rest of the year. Additionally, the  seat show room will not open
until December, but the ball room is able to accommodate large audiences and has already been booked for headliners scheduled to
begin in September. The property's reopening will put approximately  employees back to work and will be a leading force in
advancing the economic recovery of the entire Biloxi region. During the employment process, Beau Rivage received 18,000 job applicants
and Beau Rivage selected the top 21% of this job pool. Rehire statistics indicate a return rate of 55% of the previous Beau Rivage
employees. As of year-to-date June for the first six months in 2006, Mississippi Gulf Coast gaming revenues were  million which is
56% of the prior year's, or pre-Katrina, results. Currently the five casinos in operation are generating $322 per gaming position per day
compared to the prior year's results of $161 per gaming position. Based on these numbers, Beau Rivage anticipates a very successful
reopening, thus reestablishing the property's market leading position.
Finally an update on CityCenter. Project CityCenter continues on schedule and on budget for a November '09 opening. From a timing
perspective, all areas of the project have successfully completed the schematic design and are currently moving into the final design
phases with the transition into design -- through the design development phase. We're into interiors on all the buildings. From a cost
perspective, the focus continues to be placed on identifying and capitalizing on cost savings opportunities. This effort is supported by a
team of construction cost engineers from Perini, the general contractor; and Tishman, the executive construction manager for the
project. So far this approach has yielded savings in the buildings and procurement process. For example, savings were achieved in the
contract awards of concrete, elevators, form work, rebar, tower cranes, and caissons for the [Pelli] hotel casino tower. In addition, a
concrete batch plan has been assembled onsite and is scheduled to become part -- become operational this month.
The Boardwalk Hotel and Casino was imploded, as most of you know, on May 9th, and clearing of the area continues with mass
excavation to begin next week in this location. Bellagio -- the Bellagio employee parking garage opened on Monday, July 17th, which
allows for the existing surface parking area to be cleared for all of CityCenter. Foundations to the 4,000 room Pelli hotel casino towers
are substantially complete. The Mandarin Lifestyle and Condo Hotel foundations will commence by the end of the year. The existing
Monte Carlo garage is scheduled to be demolished in August to make way for a new 13-floor 7600-car parking garage which will serve
not only Monte Carlo, but CityCenter. The current garage has  spaces. The CityCenter -- CityCenter residential sales center has
received a building permit and is scheduled to open November 1st this year. Structural steel erection commenced this week. The
residential sales center will include room type mock-ups for each of the residential buildings including unit layouts, fixtures and finishes.
It will also incorporate the use of multi-media and virtual displays to demonstration the vision experiences and product offerings to be
found throughout CityCenter. Satellite residential preview centers will be located at some of the Company's other resorts in Las Vegas.
These discovery centers will build interest and excitement and connect our resort customers with the new residential experience at
CityCenter.
And that concludes my report, Mr. Murren.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
27.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
I'm going on that. We have had representatives meeting with representatives of the Liberal Democratic party in Japan, and we will have
further ones. I don't think anything's going to happen there, at least until after the November elections, and they will have a new prime
minister even if the LDP wins. But we're obviously very interested in that market if it does open up reasonably early stages.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Robin, the question that you mentioned about Mandalay Bay, the guidance I was providing was as it relates to the convention market, I
was mentioning that the ADR will be -- was up slightly in Q2, but it was expected to be down slightly in Q3. Having said that, I also had
mentioned that the convention room nights in Q3 would be up 36%.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
No. It's just down slightly, just in the convention market.
 
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
I don't have that data point handy. I think it's typically -- let me look for that real quick for you.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
Robin, this is Bobby. RevPAR for Bellagio and Mirage's going to be up between 3.5 and 4% and for Mirage Resorts -- the Mirage Resorts
group about 3% in total and conventions I think represent about  or 18% of our business.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
It was down slightly, and most of was that attributable to an increase in health benefit costs.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
And having said that -- Robin, this is Bobby. Monte Carlo did 32.6 million for the quarter. That was their best quarter ever since they
opened the hotel.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Also, Robin, the question you asked about the convention market mix at Mandalay Bay in the third quarter, that's forecasted to be about
33% of the mix.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
Well, we -- Jay, this is Bobby. Bellagio would have had almost a record quarter anyway even if it had a normal hold percentage. But it
would have done in the $115 million range with kind of a flattish hold. So it had a extra strong quarter, but it was already very, very strong
and on a normalized basis, it would have been around 115, maybe a little more.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
Well, Jay, on CityCenter we watch the costs every day. We're on time, and we're on budget, and we don't foresee any cost increase over
the period of the project. Now, we don't control all the costs, but we have bought out part of the job, and we're in the ground on the Pelli
casino hotel tower, which is the largest single component of CityCenter in terms of its cost. And we have, through Tishman and Perini
and our other business partners, we have  companies working with us on CityCenter, and most of those are working on the Pelli casino
hotel tower as well. And we think we have a pretty good understanding of the cost of the entire CityCenter -- CityCenter project.
As it relates to the retail component, of the $7 billion in CityCenter, we're spending about 2.3 or 2.4 to build 3,000 residential units that
we intend to sell for  billion or a little more. We watch the market every day. Nothing's changed there. We knew when CityCenter was
conceived and approved initially two years ago that there were many players in the market or appeared to be many players in the market.
We felt like half of them would fall away before CityCenter's residential products would even get on the market. That's held through.
Nothing's changed there. And at the same time, we felt like there was a strong, strong underlying market for high-rise residential
 
products, particularly located in the heart of the Las Vegas Strip. So we -- we think that our sales -- residential sales for CityCenter are
going to be robust. We'll know, of course, a lot more when those sales become available to the public in three or four months. But we do
our gut check seven days a week.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
August 29th.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Well, actually, I think -- we've got Gary Jacobs here, our general counsel here. I think he'd probably --
 
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
I would think it's fair to say before we open.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
It does not impact -- impact the construction schedule or the opening.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Well -- this is Terry Lanni. We obviously have an extensive program throughout Asia of marketing, and we're marketing, I think, more
effectively in the People's Republic of China and in other -- other areas in that marketplace. But the -- it's a combination of continued
business that we've had for long period of time at MGM MIRAGE as well as new customers. I can't break it down between the two. It's
obviously-- a substantive portion is existing business, but we do see an ever-increasing number of people coming from the People's
Republic of China. I saw interesting statistic that was released by the Nevada Tourism Board for 2005. Of the 493,000 people who came
 
to the United States -- I shouldn't say people -- visitations. It could have been multiple visits by people. But of 493,000 visitations to the
United States, and 93% of those people found their way to come to Las Vegas, which I think is a staggering statistic. And as visas are
coming much more readily, they're opening it up to the four coastal provinces, and I think that's going to be a very strong market for Las
Vegas, and we expect to be a significant participant in that.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Well, we'll -- we'll see. Obviously, having the flag there, it's at MGM Grand Macau property when it opens in the fourth quarter of '07 and
I think that will be beneficial. We have -- our competitors, a couple of them will be there, and they'll benefit from it also. It's just a matter
of how well we do with our marketing people. We've got a pretty good record, and I think that record will stand.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Obviously, that was a -- we had a comment that appeared in the paper -- at the end of the day we have been very bullish on that
particular product, as you know. We started it with The Signature at The Grand. We're doing it in a major way at CityCenter. That's our
primary focus as we mentioned in that release, but at the end of the day we want to make sure we have a pipeline of product, and it takes
a lot of time to develop that pipeline and develop those concepts and get all the various approvals that one needs to have in order to -- to
continue with that. So that's all we're doing in this case is to make sure that we have that continuum of pipeline of product that we can
roll out, but our primary focus and attention at this point in time is obviously CityCenter.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Well, it's one of those things you just kind of gauge with the market conditions. But -- so it's hard to predict at this time. But we just want
to make sure we're in a position to move whenever we elect to.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Let me add a point there. The priority is CityCenter. And that's going to be the primary focus, and as John said, going through the
planning commission is important for those projects because it gives us an opportunity to get them in order. But the prior will be
CityCenter. We expect that to sell well, and as John says, depending upon the movement in -- in those units, we can certainly move up
the project for Mandalay Bay, but the priority is CityCenter.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Well, we -- fourth quarter for the -- for MGM Grand and Mandalay Bay is going to be very strong as well, as will the first quarter, and in
both cases they will be up over prior years.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
We're going to -- we're going to be up in both the fourth quarter and first quarter of next year as well.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
No, we have not to date.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Well, I think it's safe to assume it's a much larger facility than what our current facility is, or we wouldn't be building it, that's for sure. So
there will be additional capacity in that facility, but we're not really at a point where we want to release the level of detail on that property
yet.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
Well, right now you're doing in the neighborhood of about  per machine per day.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of MGM Grand Resorts
That's the limit that are provided for under the regulatory framework there. We have less than 75, but we will definitely want to have
closer to  in a permanent. The way the Detroit authorities define it, but it's safe to assume that the property will be significantly --
have significantly more capacity than what we currently have.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
We've had continuing meetings with the government. We're going to be going there next week, and we expect to have an opportunity to
meet with officials of the government. And we are seeking as a -- joint venture organization's seeking additional sites, not just a single
site but additional sites. And we're looking at a number of different locations. And we -- we believe that the government is supportive of
that search.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
Thank you, Larry.
 
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman and CEO
And, Gary, that ad hoc committee is a committee of the legislature.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - President and CEO of Mirage Resorts
Jay, the -- first of all, we think that Biloxi's going to come back very strong. I think the -- our competitors believe the same thing. Some of
the other companies, of course, as you know, are concentrating their new developments in Biloxi as opposed to other regions in southern
Mississippi. The way we look at it, we've analyzed all our top  ZIP codes or so in the region to determine the economic health of those
regions where our customers are actually located and live and run their businesses. And we found that in almost all cases, those area
codes were unaffected by hurricanes or Hurricane Katrina. It's our belief that there are many, many customers awaiting a first class
product in Biloxi, Mississippi. As you know, the five casinos that are currently open are currently open, many of which are in a temporary
phase are still winning more than half the money that was done by the  casinos when they were fully operational, pre-storm. So I
suspect, as do others, that Biloxi's going to be a very, very strong market, probably stronger than ever. We certainly anticipate that Beau
Rivage, that was pacing about $90 million a year, should quickly achieve that rate of EBITDA and probably do better than it ever did
before. It's -- the market's just as strong as ever, and Beau Rivage as a product is way better than it was before it was damaged by the
hurricane.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Jim. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Earlier today we reported diluted earnings, EPS, if you will, of $0.54 for the
third quarter. This is an all-time record for any quarter in the Company's history, for which we're quite proud. Operating results, I'm going
to talk a little bit about that. Net revenues increased over $90 million for the quarter, which represents a 5% increase quarter to quarter
comparison.
We had very strong slot results, with slot revenues up 5%. Several of those resorts of ours had particularly strong slots results, including
a 15% increase at Bellagio, 17% increase at TI, and a 12% increase at MGM Grand Las Vegas. These results one again demonstrate the
real power of our Players Club program. As we have mentioned before, we're converting the Mandalay Resorts to Players Club. With
 
Mandalay Bay, Luxor and Monte Carlo having recently converted and the remaining properties expected to come online between now
and the middle of 2007. On the baccarat front, our volume increased 22% for the quarter. The rends in the high end segment remain very
strong and we see that strength continuing into the important New Year's period, Western New Year's as well as Chinese New Year's.
Operating income was $428 million, representing an increase of 26%. And property EBITDA was $637 million, up 19% with excellent
margins, as Jim will cover in more detail shortly.
Beau Rivage, Bobby will discuss the property's results and continued construction activity. And I wanted to comment on the fact that we
met our commitment to the Gulf Coast and to our employees, opening on time, on the one-year anniversary of hurricane Katrina. And the
credit for this accomplishment extends broadly. But leading the group obviously is Bobby Baldwin, going to George Corchis, the
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Jim. I'll report on the third quarter results for Mirage Resorts. My report will include highlights for
Bellagio, The Mirage, Beau Rivage and CityCenter.
Bellagio's third quarter was $98 million, this was the highest third quarter ever reported for Bellagio, and was $28 million, or 39% more
than the third quarter of '05. Bellagio gaming revenue of $124 million was up $10 million, or 9% from the third quarter of '05. Slot win
was up $6 million led by a 27% increase in slot handle. Table games revenue was up $4 million or about 6% compared -- one moment.
On comparable hold percentages quarter to quarter. Hotel revenues in the third quarter was up $6 million or 7% on a $13 increase in
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Thanks, Bobby. Good morning, everyone. I'll be, of course, talking about MGM Grand Resorts. The group had a very strong quarter, as
evidenced by the impressive Las Vegas strip properties growth in ADR and slot revenue of 5.2% and 9.3% respectively. We also saw
record revenues throughout many of the departments at all of the properties.
At that Grand, we had a solid quarter with EBITDA after preopening of $83.6 million versus $81.2 million in Q3 of the prior year. This was
the highest third quarter EBITDA in the property's history. The property continues to see strong demand, as evidenced by the record
quarter in slot revenue and near record revenues in room, food, and beverage. Also in the third quarter, the remaining units in Tower  of
the Signature closed with a gain in the quarter of $26.2 million. Approximately 75% of the closed units have been placed into the rental
program as of today.
Realizing that the residents hotel brand for the Signature, of course, is only five months old, demand for the product has been very
strong and customer feedback has been impressive. With regards to Tower 2, we have received our certificate of occupancy, and closings
began yesterday, November 1. We expect to recognize approximately $40 to $45 million of the $76 million estimated total gain in Q4,
with the balance being recognized in Q1 of '07. Tower  is 84% sold and expected to be completed in April of '07. The total estimated
 
gain on Tower  is going to be approximately $87 million.
With regard to the convention market at the Grand, demand remains very strong, with ADR up approximately 2.8% in Q3 and expected
to be up approximately 10% in Q4. Mandalay Bay, again the quarter, EBITDA of $60 million versus $62.8 million in Q3 the prior year. It
was a strong quarter despite the fact the table game hold percentage was  basis points lower than the prior year, as Jim alluded to.
The impact of this was decreased hold percentage of approximately $6 million in EBITDA. The property had the best slot revenue quarter
in its history, and had record Q3 results in rooms, food, and beverage.
With regard to the convention market at Mandalay, demand also remained strong, with ADR down slightly, 3.7% in Q3, but the
convention room nights were up an impressive 28.8%. For Q4, we're expecting ADR to increase approximately 10% over Q4 prior year,
similar to the Grand. At Luxor, it had its best third quarter in the property's history with EBITDA of $37.5 million versus $33.7 million in Q3
of prior year. The results are due to strong occupancy of 99%, and aggressive expense control.
At Excalibur, Q3 EBITDA of $33.3 million versus $29 million in Q3 prior year. This was the best third quarter in the property's history and
was driven by strong results across all departments. In Detroit, the quarter continued to be very strong, with EBITDA of $38.4 million
after preopening versus $36.8 million in Q3 prior year. The current quarter EBITDA was negatively impacted in the amount of $2.1 million
due to the increased gaming tax of  basis points that went into effect at January 1, '06.
Slot revenue for the quarter was up an impressive 11% over Q3 prior year and was the best quarter in the property's history. In addition to
the strengthening results, construction on the permanent facility continues to progress smoothly and ahead of schedule with an
expected opening date in Q4 2007. And on that, I will turn it back over to Jim Murren.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
For -- you mean the -- are you talking about the --?
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
You mean for the most recent tower, right? The sales per square foot in Tower C have averaged about $1,067 a square foot. The first
tower, Larry, was $788. The second tower was $941.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Exactly the same units.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
So, again, everything is the same, Tower A, Tower B, Tower C are all look-alikes,  units. And that's the growth in the average per
square foot.
 
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
That's right, about  at the Mirage. When you compare it to the year before they were actually off about  in hold percentage.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Well, I'm looking at Terry. To see if -- he decided you're expanding Circus, are you expanding Circus?
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
That's the first I've heard about it. That's the first I've heard about it. But we did say we might buy a higher grade of pink paint.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
We're actually -- the view on both of those properties, of course, is that their competitors are largely going away. In fact, I think -- was it
yesterday the Star Dust closed? And so there's great market potential in both those properties. In fact, we think terrific potential. So, we
are looking at a variety of ways of improving them. I think that's -- I think what you're referring to. And some of those projects are already
underway and there will be more to come.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
With our partner we're seeking additional sites in Macau. Frankly, in Macau and [Kotai.] And the third opportunity would be on the
reclaimed land. I think on the reclaimed opportunities, that's going to probably be a couple years before the government is interested in
providing any more reclaimed land to any other projects. So in the interim, we're going to have to focus on land that is currently either
already in place or been reclaimed, if you will. We don't have anything more to report on it but we're actively searching.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
I'll turn it to Bobby on the first question.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
As it relates to Mississippi in particular, Beau Rivage, of course, that market, there have been a lot of developments that had some delays
in that market. So, Beau Rivage ought to benefit from the lack of first-class gaming facilities there for some time to come. When business
was interrupted in '05, Beau Rivage was on a record pace for about $86 million in cash flow. In fact, that's the nature of our business
interruption claims. We expect in this interrupted market now with the reopening to do at least as well as we did before the storm, and
maybe better.
As it it relates to Tunica, Tunica, obviously, is a market that's got great potential. We had some very strong competitors, notably our
neighbor the Horseshoe. But we have new management and we have increased improvements to the facility itself. So, I would expect in
that Tunica you could expect those numbers to continue to improve and we'll have to wait and see.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
His other question was on slots versus like Q2 versus Q3.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
And I think also, John, I think we mentioned on our last call that we had seen a little bit of softness kind of mid-week at some of our more
value-oriented properties, at least on the strip. That has improved. We had a tremendous Labor Day, and the tone of the business in
general has improved kind of consecutively throughout the third quarter and into the fourth quarter. So, if I'm getting to your question
correctly, in terms of the tone of the customer, certainly we see that midweek improving, firming up across the range of our properties.
The high end obviously is very strong and we do very well in that part of the segment. But the middle market and the economy side has
improved as well.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
And anecdotally that may well be somewhat directed by the falling gasoline prices for people because that market is more of a drive-in
market than a fly-in markets. But that's anecdotal.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
Robin, the net per square foot after sales costs is $1,095.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
That's correct.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
We were worried about that a little bit early on, but -- I'll turn it over to John -- but we certainly haven't seen a material impact on that at
all on the strip, and I don't think anywhere. Have we, John?
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
No, I think people have figured out a work-around in that regard, and it doesn't seem to be having a significant impact to date.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Well, we're looking at a number of different areas in the Far East, and certainly Japan is one of them. We understand that there may well
be a Bill introduced, I think on January  in the diet and that it probably should move forward. That's the current understanding. But we
have to wait and see, and we are evaluating different opportunities. It is difficult to ascertain where those opportunities will be because it
has yet to be defined specifically, even if it's approved as a constitutional change in Japan where, the locations will be, how many there
will be. And that is to be seen and we are following it very closely. Along with following other potential opportunities in other parts of the
Far East especially.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Sure. Well at lot of those trends, David, there are a lot more non-Far East high rollers who are domestic, or national customers who are
migrating into the baccarat business. Baccarat is no longer merely an international, and more specifically, a Far Eastern phenomena.
And we have seen that market continue to be very strong. And I suspect it's because the economy is generally strong in the United
States. The types of people who are high-end casino players nationally are people whose businesses are doing well. And we see that as a
very strong market and a growing market.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Well, we -- I'll take that, and then maybe anyone else can jump in. The fourth quarter, of course, is so heavily weighted to the end of the
quarter, it always is. So we -- there was a time when we didn't give fourth quarter guidance because of the nature of our business. We
have so much play in December. So, we think it the's prudent to give what we think today is our best guess. The forward-looking
 
indicators are excellent, in terms of convention bookings, in terms of forward-looking room sales, in terms of the events that we're having
at the Grand Garden and Mandalay. The things that stimulate customer activity in the casino. So at this point, I think it's fair to say we
expect to have an up quarter on a property standpoint and we'll see.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
For this year?
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Sure. Year to date, CityCenter, we've spent $429 million. And MGM Grand Detroit we've spent $210 million. That's through the end of the
third quarter.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
I think what it is, without doing any research early on, is the numbers that you see reported by the State are on a cash basis. The
numbers, of course, that we report are accrual basis. And there's wide swings in that, as you can imagine, when you look at the table
game side in particular. When you only pay gaming tax on your cash basis wins, that creates some tremendous volatility in those -- when
you're trying to compare books to what's reported at the State level.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
No, that information is just strictly for the MGM Grand legacy rooms.
 
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
"Other revenue" Dennis.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
No, at the corporation.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
All right. I misspoke. They're yelling at me, Dennis. There's other revenue at the property.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
How do you define maintenance? The way we do, which is actually improving the properties?
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
I'd say it's fair, like $500 million.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Must be our world economy. I don't know. It's just -- I think it's more interesting to a lot of people, people of higher net worth. They are
probably more traveled and it's just happening. I wish I could tell you specifically why.
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
No, what you're seeing -- I think that's true in that respect. But you also see migration of the Far Eastern people to blackjack, also, which
is a reasonably new phenomenon.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Well, I'll take a stab at it, then I'll turn it the over to my partners here. But if some of the major initiatives at the Mandalay properties
include a major technology upgrade in general, which is the backbone, of course, for all of our slot business, but also in food and
beverage, hotel, et cetera. So that starts with upgrading the product on the floor, which we have been doing. It starts with Players Club,
which has been rolling out property by property on a very systematic basis. And then it happens in the hotel as we roll out our hotel
management system, so that we can improve our overall yielding of our rooms. All those initiatives take time. And, in fact, I think Luxor
just went live yesterday. And it will be by the end of next year, we'll be done with all those initiatives.
Also, from a standpoint of capital, if you were out here today you would see significant capital improvements at Monte Carlo, at
Mandalay Bay, and soon at Luxor. In fact, it's starting already at Luxor, Excalibur. So the Mandalay properties are all going through
significant upgrades, which we think will accrue to the benefit of earnings almost immediately.
The results at the Mirage are not -- should not be a mystery. Yes, it held well but that really obscures the underlying business at the
Mirage, which is tremendous. And it's because of the upgrades to that property, making a tremendous impact on the marketplace. Those
kind of upgrades and improvements are underway at the other properties, Mandalay, Luxor, et cetera, and we expect to get a very high
ROI on those. And then on the other side, on the cost side, we're drilling into more cost savings, mostly on the procurement area, where
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
Well, of course, Mirage is really a powerful enterprise. Everything on the floor, on the casino floor, is new, all the restaurants, of course,
the addition of the nightclub and getting LOVE up and running. So, Mirage ought to continue to improve. It had a spectacular quarter of
 
$70 million, but even if the didn't have any hold benefit it still would have been almost twice what it was last year. It would have been in
the $50 or $55 million range. I think there's plenty up of upside in Mirage. I think you're going to see solid results out of Mirate. In fact,
Mirage will probably make more money -- as close to as much money this year as did it its first year of operations. So, that says a lot.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
You talking about visitation to Las Vegas versus --?
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Well, we'd like to think that we continued to increase our competitive advantages. I know that sounds kind of trite but it's happening.
We're building significant market share gains in all of our properties, and it's a bad quarter for us if we don't do better than the market.
And it's actually a bad day at the Board meeting if we don't. So, I think that you should expect to see that from us. You're out here, and
everyone that comes out here knows there's a dramatic difference property by property on the strip. Some properties are moving ahead,
improving themselves, expanding their customers, and others are dormitories. And it can't be more profound than it is right now. And we
think that trend is going to continue. So, I think, we all believe here, that Las Vegas is a market that will continue to grow, maybe
modestly, but grow on a very large base,  million visitors. And we'll do better than that.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
Well, the Beau Rivage margin was up significantly, but it also had the benefit of the grand opening, or the grand reopening of the hotel.
In the comparable year in '04, it had a 24% or 25% operating margin. It was about  or  points higher than that for this period. But
that's all been normalized a bit. The big improvement was really up in Tunica, where they had virtually no margin the year before, about
11%. And they had a more normal margin of 22% in this quarter, as Holly does a better job of leveraging that asset in Tunica. So, I think
you will see the big improvements in Tunica and a more normalized margin than 25%, 30% range going forward in Biloxi.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
Well, as it relates to CityCenter, we see a little bit of a flattening in materials and labor looking forward. We have bought out about $600
million of the job for CityCenter, which is about 15% of the total construction component of $4.2 million. So we see the margin -- we see
the materials and labor stabilizing but CityCenter was very long on planning. So, it was a project that has been in the works for over two
years. And so we had a long time to plan for the materials and labor required to design and construct CityCenter. So, we have a pretty
good understanding of the cost. Other people's costs may even be higher than ours. We don't know. We put a lot of pressure on the
construction market, obviously, because we soaked up a lot of the capacity to build buildings in Las Vegas in particular.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
And just one follow-up on that, is that the Board of MGM approved a construction budge vet CityCenter, and it hasn't gone up since they
approved that budget. So, there hasn't been, for CityCenter, an increase in construction costs.
 
Bobby Baldwin MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of Mirage Resorts, President of Mirage Resorts and Project City Center
We don't expect one.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
And we don't expect one. One last question, operator.
 
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Do we have one last question?
 
Terry Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
John Redmond MGM MIRAGE - Director, CEO of MGM Grand Resorts, President of MGM Grand Resorts of MGM Grand Detroit
Thank you. And I think that will be about it for this call. I want to thank you all on behalf of our Company here for participating. And as
always, if you have any follow-up questions, please don't hesitate to call. Thank you very much.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Jim. And happy Valentine's day.
I think it's the first time in my 30-years in the industry we've ever had an earnings call on Valentine's day.
Call
 
Earlier today we reported diluted APS from continuing operations of $0.68 for the fourth quarter. This is an all-time record for any
quarter in the company's history. In fact, it's record revenues and record earnings for the entire year. Operational results, the net revenues
were increased to $1.8 billion, that represents an 11% increase.
Gaming revenues increased 13% including the contribution from the reopened Beau Rivage. We had an excellent western New Years and
high-end business remained very strong during that period of time. Beau Rivage has completed its Tom Fazio Fallen Oaks Golf Course. In
fact, that's the fourth Tom Fazio golf course in the company. We're very proud of this new addition and hopefully the weather will allow
us to continue to operate there for a long period of time.
Some of the other aspects of this quarter, we made progress on several growth initiatives.
We finalized the agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot tribal nation. We entered into a memorandum of understanding with
Mubadala, a development company of Abu Dhabi of The United Arab Emirates. We also entered into advanced discussions with the
Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing, arm of the Foreign Service Department of The People's Republic of China. And I'd like to
emphasize that these agreements are very strategic and very meaningful. We are focused on maximizing the value of two of our most
important assets. Those are our brands and our significant real estate holdings.
And we're very committed to these partnerships and expect to produce tangible projects resulting from these agreements in the very
near future. On City Center, it's continued progress on the project. Residential efforts are now underway and Bobby will provide a
complete update in his report today.
Earlier this week, we announced our plans for the development of a new community in Jean, Nevada, which is about  miles south of
Bellagio, on either side of I-15 with our partners American Nevada Corporation.
We believe, this transaction allows to us generate significant value and allows us to address affordable housing needs of our employees.
With the increase in housing prices, it's been difficult for the more modest income level people in this community and we think this will
go a long way in dealing with that situation and we're very pleased with this joint venture.
On Macau, the construction of MGM Grand Macau is progressing to a fourth quarter opening. It's a very exciting time for our company.
We, along with our partner, are committed to this exciting marketplace and are pleased to acknowledge that our second project will be a
site in Cotai. Develop planning will begin immediately on that. And we look forward to creating another world class resort experience.
I'd now like to turn back over to Jim for a few more comments on our financial results.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. MGM Grand Resorts had a very strong quarter with all four strip properties. The Grand, Mandalay,
Luxor and Excalibur achieving the highest fourth quarter EBITDA in their respective history.
We also saw record revenues throughout many of the departments of all of the properties. In particular, MGM Grand, Mandalay Bay and
Luxor had the highest slot revenue quarters in their history. The four Las Vegas strip properties had ADR growth of 6.3% and slot revenue
was up an impressive 5.9%.
The convention business at MGM Grand, Mandalay Bay in Q1 of '07 continues to be extremely strong with room nights between the two
properties and ADR up 21% and 6.4% respectively.
Room renovation started in Q4 '06 at Mandalay Bay and Excalibur.
For the first time since opening in 1999, the original Tower at Mandalay Bay is being remodeled. The renovation began at the end of
November and is expected to last until August of '07, with up to  rooms being out of order on a weekly basis.
We expect to lose approximately 42,000 room nights in Q1, 54,000 room nights in Q2 and 11,000 room nights in Q3 '07. To date,
approximately  of the Mandalay rooms have been renovated and the initial customer response has been very strong.
Call
 
In November, 2006, we began renovating 1,000 rooms at the Excalibur. The project will be completed in April of '07.
The Excalibur rooms have not been renovated in a meaningful way since the property opened in 1990. Initial upgrade of 25% of
Excalibur's rooms will create a test environment to gather further customer feedback on product and evaluate the upper range of ADR
within this most important demographic. As an added data point, the delta in the ADR between the Excalibur and New York-New York
for the year  was $42.
In addition to the fact that the properties are connected, the Excalibur standard room is larger than most rooms at New York-New York.
Needless to say, we are very excited by the upside potential of Excalibur room renovation. We expect to lose approximately 30,000 room
nights in Q1 and 1,200 room nights in Q2 of '07 due to this renovation.
As of this Friday the 16th, approximately  of those rooms have been renovated and have been extremely well received.
Q1, 2007, we will recognize approximately $10 million on the remainder of the gain on the residents at Tower II that Jim referred to. The
Tower III will be completed in April of '07 with closings slated to begin in May of '07. Operations on that Tower III are expected to begin in
July of '07.
The response to the residents continues to build and we are seeing spends throughout the property from the residence hotel guest
consistent with that of the guests staying at the MGM Grand. Finally in Q2 of '07, MGM Grand will be hosting the Oscar de la Hoya and
Floyd Mayweather fight. This must-see event sold out in less than four hours. And we expect it to draw significant high-end play in the
quarter.
Moving to Detroit. In Q4 '06, again, another strong quarter. Detroit continued its very strong performance with the best fourth quarter
slot revenue in the history of the property.
With regards to the permanent facility, we're ahead of schedule with an expected opening date in early Q4 '07. On that note, I'll turn it
over to my colleague, Bobby Baldwin.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Thank you, John. And good morning.
As you can see in the release, Bellagio had a record year, as it benefited, of course, from the improved facilities at Bellagio. Bellagio in '07
also had some additional capital improvements, including a new high-limit room and a full remodel of all of its hotel suites that hadn't
been remodeled, of course, since the hotel opened. The Mirage, likewise The Mirage Hotel Casino '06 results were considerably higher
than in '05 as it benefited from a long list of improvements including the results of the new LOVE show.
Beau Rivage experienced its best fourth quarter in its history. The fourth quarter included the openings of the Fallen Oak Golf Course,
three new restaurants and show room. All aspects of the reconstruction of Beau Rivage are now complete.
Construction of City Center is progressing quickly and continues to be on budget and on track for the forecasted November 
opening. It's an impressive site with  frames and  cranes to come. We'll have  total. Currently, there's about 1,200 workers on the
site.
The hotel casino Tower has reached the seventh floor. We're currently placing concrete at a rate of one floor every nine days. Foundations
for the convention center and the casino podium area are currently also underway. The construction at City Center has begun on the
Mandarin, Vdara, Veer Towers and The Harmon Hotel. Construction also has begun on the [inaudible] retail experience and therefore all
components in City Center are now fully under construction.
We recently completed a cost review of City Center and the project remains on budget and on schedule as I mentioned. Total cost of City
Call
 
Center is $7 billion with the net investment of $4.5 billion after deducting the projected retail proceeds of $2.5 billion.
The Residential Sales Pavilion opened on January 2nd, located between Monte Carlo and New York-New York on the Las Vegas strip. We
also have City Center residential galleries at the Bellagio and Mirage Casino Hotel. The residential sales process began in October with
Our Friends and Family Program producing more than 1,600 reservations.
The residences at the Mandarin Oriental sales launch was in mid January.
Mandarin sales to date are $613 million with 90% of the residential sold at an average price of $1,584 per square foot. There are 
units in the Mandarin and therefore  units sold. The Vdara Condo Hotel sales launch begins January 20th. I mean February 20th.
There are currently over  reservations for the 1,543 available units.
The Veer Towers, their sales launch begins April 2nd, and there are currently  reservations for the  units available at Veer.
Our final residential release will be The Harmon in June of this year. And there are  units at Harmon.
And that concludes my report. Jim?
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Well, I'll tackle that. Maybe Terry you want to do it as well. One is we have no joint venture that is specific with Fox Woods on an Atlantic
City site or anywhere else for that matter.
We do have a joint venture agreement with Fox Woods the Mashantucket Pequot tribal nation to explore investments throughout
gaming worldwide which could include Atlantic City and Las Vegas. But -- so, I think they're unnecessarily linking the two. We did win a
court case, and that's good news for us.
As it relates to our land in general, we do have quite a bit of land available to us both here in the Las Vegas valley and in Atlantic City,
and I think people are recognizing that we can deploy our resources in a very productive manner through joint ventures and otherwise
like we've done in Jean, for example, to maximize the value to our shareholders. I think there was a first part of that question that I
missed. So I'll turn it over to Terry
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Let me add a point to that. It's Terry Lanni. Our focus and our board has given us direction. The focus on Atlantic City is on the  acres
next to Borgata. That's our primary focus. We're going to develop that on our own as a wholly owned entity.
And we have been given approval by our board to move ahead with preliminary work and given us authorization to spend up to $20
million. For that, that would take approximately a year. That would put us in a position to reach out to CAFRA about this time this year.
That's Coastal Agency Facility Review Act. Some at the California Coastal Commission, which needs about another year. So if we were
aggressive and worked as we would want to, it would be the ability to begin construction again. It's a long way away from that. It would
be about two years from now, but that's our primary focus.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
We sure are expecting more. We haven't received any yet this quarter, but, yes, we are expecting more.
Call
 
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Thank you.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Sorry. We lost Harry. Bad mike.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Good morning, Steve. The demographics roughly are about 30% are California buyers, 30% of the buyers from Nevada, and then the
international buyers are kind of split. The people that international is about 8% from overseas and about 20% are people that have
international people have considerable assets and for the most part live in the United States. So, it's about 33%, 33% and 33% and 10%
miscellaneous.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
John can answer that.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Most definitely. Signature was for the most part all domestic buyers, but significant out of California. Not as much other than the investor
population in Nevada.
Call
 
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Let's take a peek at it. Table drop was -- it up a little bit. I'm trying to get more specific. Las Vegas in general on the strip -- was that
down a little bit?
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
It was down a touch on the strip. Up a little bit overall in terms of drop. Year-over-year, we had a lot of drop as you recall in the fourth
quarter last -- the prior year, our whole percentage. I think we talked about it in the prior year release was a little bit lower. It was in our
normal range in both years, but it was the lower end of our range in '05 and then kind of more in the midpoint of our range in '06.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Sure. The big component of rooms in service or available year-over-year was the fact we didn't have The Boardwalk this year versus a
year ago. So, The Boardwalk was around 60,000 rooms. So, we had 69,000 rooms less available in the fourth quarter of '06 versus '05,
so we had rooms available of $3.3 million, right, basically, versus rooms available $3.39 million in the delta. So specifically it's $3.318
million, basically versus $3.388 million. 69,000 less room nights was primarily The Boardwalk. The $9 million was throughout the
company and that's room remodel.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Yes. I think it's the same as what we typically did. You want to take that, Terry?
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Gary Jacobs may want to amplify on this. But we're continuing to cooperate with the regulators in both those jurisdictions. Their timing
will be their timing. And when they propose it they will propose it. And we'll learn it probably at the same time you do.
Call
 
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Okay, Jake. As it relates to the Mandarin sales, of the $600 million or so, those are contracts for sale. And the buyer has to put down 10%
of the purchase price nonrefundable at that point in time.
Six months later, or six months from January, they have to put down the other 10%, which would make it a nonrefundable deposit of 20%
in total. And the other 80% is due at the closing, which would be the summer of '09. That's how the money rolls out. And to how solid
the sales are, all we can do is tell you that the deposits are nonrefundable and they are contracts for sale as are typical.
We did look at Signature, who had 1,500 unit range of sales, and they had about  or  of those contracts default.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
As a buyer, Bobby, you should also point out it's not interest bearing.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
It is not interest bearing. I'm not buying one. We've got Terry's money locked up. That's a good start.
As it relates to the future releases, the sales release, as I said for Vdara is February 20, and it will take a little over a month to work
through the Vdara sales release. And then the Veer sales release is April 2nd. Which are the Helmut Jahn Towers. Then finally The
Harmon in the summertime. The important thing is that the sales program residential sales program at City Center is  months in
length, which actually began in October of last year and concludes in the summer of '09.
We, of course put Mandarin on the market first. It was the most advanced product that we had. Also we thought was going to be the
most eye popping of all of the offerings. We wanted to process Mandarin first. That's why we led with Mandarin. Then the other three
products rolled out in the order we discussed.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
The internal budget was $1,400.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
I think Jean was a perfect example Jim already gave. $900,000 an acre is unheard of for property in Jean, Nevada, for  acres. And the
ability to develop that and we expect it will be a mixed use development. I think you'll see retail components through there. Midrise and
apartments, probably some timeshare. A lot of other factors. So I think that's what the factor is. We're going to enhance the value of the
existing real estate we have. Along the strip, Jim has pointed out and I have a number of times, of the  or so acres we have along the
strip, at least  acres of it is either undeveloped or underdeveloped. 25% of that is represented by City Center. But there's a heck of a
lot of property and front and Frank Sinatra side of Excalibur and Luxor and Mandalay. And we think there's some great real estate
developments there that will afford us two alchemies. One, to monetize some of the land there, but also create traffic, which will be
beneficial to all those hotels. So, it's a significant factor.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
And if I could add, Terry, for example, Mubadala, as an example, which in the press release, an extremely strong partner of ours moving
forward as we work for a joint venture with them, has expressed an interest in a variety of locations that we're already in.
So, from a standpoint of bringing in partners into existing real estate, I think you're correct in your assumption that is likely to happen,
and I think that is the template for other type of joint venture arrangements that would probably have at various stages of development.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
We've actually spent quite a bit of time on this. And it's evolving as a business unit within MGM Mirage, but it's clear that as we evolve
our company we have substantial projects which are capital intensive, which we believe that will yield great returns for us. City Center
would be a classic example. Terry mentioned Atlantic City.
That would be another great example of that and there would be others. Also as we are focusing our company on these major projects
and divesting of some of our smaller resorts like Primm, for example, and Laughlin. There's an opportunity to replace those cash flows
with management cash flows. Development in management of gaming and nongaming hotels really worldwide. We believe there is
great potential in that business for us.
We know how to develop. We know how to manage hotels. We do that a lot all day long. And we feel like with our brands, or with brands
that we develop, finding right partners globally would be a great way of diversifying our cash flows and building a big business.
Cathy Santoro here, is in the room, has been working on this project with Terry and a variety of people here and has been building up a
model that shows a pretty substantial growth in this type of business over many years. And it's not lost on us when we see Four Seasons
go out at  plus times cash flow, or Fairmont go out at  times cash flow, and look at some of our brothers in the hotel industry that are
more asset light, I guess, that have been able to grow their cash flows through joint ventures, and achieve very high margins in returns.
It's -- we are in the gaming resort business. That is our principal business. But we believe we can enhance our growth through that
mechanism.
Call
 
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
I would add that I've also been identifying individuals from within the company, as well as outside the company who could form a team
as we move this forward as it evolves. So, I think we have sufficient management internally and some people we've identified externally
to allow this to move forward as we do.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
I think both complimentary and competitor. That's why we obviously want to be in Macau and other parts of Asia. But the real dynamic
that's taking place now is really what's happening in the four coastal provinces of The People's Republic of China. If you even look at
Taiwan, which is still a good market for us, a significant portion of our high-end customers from Taiwan have either moved to, or moved
their businesses to the People's Republic of China, spending less and less time there.
So a lot of the business that comes out of the PRC now is Taiwanese business because substantially established and significant sums of
money already in place.
But if you take a look at really what's happening in Macau, when you add up the dollars that are probably wagered in Macau, I would
guess it would be about 80% of the money wagered is from people from the PRC, either directly or indirectly. When they look at the
numbers they count all the people coming in from Hong Kong as Hong Kong SAR people, rather than PRC people. And a number of
them, we know for a fact are individuals who are from Shanghai, Beijing and other parts of PRC. but have residences and businesses in
Hong Kong.
So real significant changes happening there. Obviously, those people as they come into Macau, especially new people who haven't been
to the United States before, will be exposed. Right now, they're frankly exposed to this Venetian and to Webb.
That's why we're looking forward to the opening because that puts us at a disadvantage very frankly and I suspect the business in both
those entities here in Las Vegas happens to be derived from their introduction of the people they know in Macau. A lot of people coming
in from the PRC also who probably aren't as interested in exposing the amount of wagers that they make as close to home as in Macau
and might be more comfortable in a bit more anonymity here in Las Vegas. It's rather complex but rather simple at the same time.
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
Obviously, we want to see the PRC continue to grow at the rate they did last year at 10.7%. That's very effective for our business. If they
fall into a recession, that would be something that would be a headache there and probably a hiccup at least here in Las Vegas. So,
that's a factor. Obviously, the ability for those people to travel into the country, we have real problems in this country, as you probably
know with visas.
Call
 
It's not the exit visas from PRC or other places, it's the entrance visas into the United States. And we've had a reduction in tourism to the
United States. I think it's down 7% since 9/11.
There's a human cry -- we're working with Congress in trying to reduce that. I mean, terrorists are something, but not all these people are
terrorists. A small minority are. We have to deal with them and that's one of the few positive balance of trades we have is tourism. Our
country's not effecting that very well.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
You're going to see them in Q2. And again, it's a little bit difficult to predict when you look at even what happened with our estimates for
Q4 versus Q1. I think right now the early estimate is about $43 million in Q2. Again, it's really a function of how quickly you can close it.
We are on track to complete that Tower in April and closings would start in May.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Correct. Substantially in Q2 and Q3 you see those closings.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
It's in that -- well, when you look at land and everywhere else, probably in the $85 million to $88 million range.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Yes.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Yes. That's correct.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
All the hotel information we provide, with respect to the Grand excludes the residential product.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Correct.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
It is, Dennis.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Correct.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Yes. With our partners, master plan the entire acreage which will include a hotel casino.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
No. A lot of BLM land all around it. There is little bits and pieces, but it's a pretty strategic piece because of the fact it's privately owned.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Thank you.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Maybe I'll touch it, since you asked me. But I'll turn it over to Terry, too, because it's a very important part of our business. There's a --
there's no question that there's an opportunity to grow our business footprint in a variety of markets that don't currently include gaming.
We have tremendous brands. We have this expertise that we referred to in development and in management.
And we believe that there's a variety of opportunities ahead of us. One is to provide a stream of revenue and earnings to us. Two, to use
our brands as marketing outposts throughout the globe. That would have, I think, a very beneficial impact on our existing resorts.
For example, closer to home, let's take the MGM Grand in Connecticut, after talks with reservation. What that does to our existing
properties I frankly don't know. I know it's good to have an MGM Grand in New England with that demographic. It would have a positive
impact in terms of marketing exposure to our existing results, but that's part of the picture.
The other part is to provide us with the revenue to development in nongaming ways and in gaming ways without a lot of asset intensity.
We've been specific as to the kinds of partners we're looking for, and the ones that you referred to Mubadala, with the Emirate of Abu
Dhabi and Diaoyutai are tremendous partners for us, because of their local expertise, because of their resources and because of the
markets in which they are dominant.
And those are the type of partners, and I don't think we're trying to say we're limiting ourselves to those partners. We're looking at a
variety of opportunities similar to that. Anything more to add?
 
Terrance Lanni MGM MIRAGE - Chairman, CEO
I think you handled that very well.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
Thank you.
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
I think you mean NYRA. What was NYRA?
 
John Redmond MGM Grand Resorts - CEO, President
We're evaluating each of those. Thailand, I think,probably on hold because of the difficulty and change with the administration and
prime minister talks and moving on.
As far as the U.K., we're evaluating it. The Parliament hasn't even approved the recommendation. [inaudible] made it yet to her. I
understand there's going to be probably an RFP process. May start as early as July, but probably not sooner than that.
We're looking at Japan and we have our people on the ground there and we think that's an interesting marketplace. There are other parts
of Asia that we're also focusing on. We know a lot of our competitors are listening on this. They're probably in the same spots anyway. We
won't disclose those. But we're highly focussed in Asia. But there are unique other aspects in the world that may be of interest to us. We
have to evaluate each one.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Thank you, Larry. I guess we'll take one last call, Leslie, since I think we're running out of time.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
As it relates to some of the properties in the strip, Bellagio, New York-New York, just looking at the numbers in the fourth quarter there,
pretty flat to last year.
 
Robert Baldwin Mirage Resorts Inc. - CEO, President
Thank you, guys. With that, then I want to thank you all for participating in the call. If you have any follow-up questions, please do not
hesitate to call us. Thank you.
 