Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
 
Company's Co-founder and CEO, I'll dispense with the customary cautionary language and comment about the webcast for this earnings
call.
We released earnings for the first quarter at approximately 1:05 p.m. Pacific time. The earnings release which includes a reconciliation of
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Thank you, Deborah, and welcome everyone. Our goals at Netflix are simple, to be a great Internet movie service by combining
DVD-by-mail with Internet streaming and to deliver growing EPS and subscribers every year. In Q1, we made significant progress on
those goals and our momentum is reflected in our increased subscriber guidance for 2008.
We currently expect at the midpoint of our guidance, 9.4 million subscribers by year end, an increase of 26% from 2007. In terms of EPS
growth at the midpoint of our guidance we expect $1.23 in EPS for the year, up 27% from 2007. In Q1, the most telling metrics were
subscriber net additions at 764,000, SAC at less than $30, and churn at 3.9%.
All three were record performances over our six years as a public Company. We have been executing very well for many quarters as we
steadily improve our service metrics, our customer satisfaction, and our competitive strength. Q1 was consistent with this strong trend, as
opposed to something new. But in late December, our most direct competitor further rationalized their pricing which contributed to our
Q1 surge in growth.
Some of the positive impact from our competitors' price hike will be long lasting and some of it was a one-time benefit as their subscriber
base responded to their price increase. So while Q1 was an all-time record in net additions, we don't expect Q2 to be a record second
quarter or  to be a record year in terms of net additions. In addition, we are planning on spending slightly less on marketing over the
 
next three quarters than in the comparable periods of 2006, our biggest net additions year.
We are very pleased, however, with our strong growth expectations of approximately 160,000 net adds for Q2 and 1.9 million for the full
year, assuming the midpoint of our guidance because these growth levels are allowing us to aggressively fund our instant watching
efforts. On the industry front in Q1, the High Def format war ended which is great for consumers and great for those of us with a vested
interest in disc-based movie watching.
Over the coming years, Blu-ray DVD players will fall in price and become more widespread. With the success of Blu-ray and its emerging
economic importance to the studios, the DVD market is more likely than ever to remain enormous for many years into the future. As you
are aware, purchasing Blu-ray DVDs costs more, both at retail and wholesale, than standard definition DVDs. Consumers are used to
paying more for high definition content in every other channel including video rental stores, video on demand and cable channels.
Because of the higher cost of Blu-ray and the consumer expectations around High Def content, we are planning on implementing a
modest monthly premium for access to Blu-ray some time this year. Today, the percentage of our subs who rent Blu-ray is in the low
single digits, but it is sure to grow going forward.
While the success of Blu-ray is important to us, just as important are the improvements we have made to watching instantly over the
Internet. Our selection continues to grow and we now have over 9,000 movies and TV episodes available. Today, our instant watching
functionality is only available on Windows PCs which works well for our subscribers who is are comfortable watching video on their lap
tops and for our technophile members who hook up their computers to their TVs.
We have been happy, we have been very happy with the response to date amongst these groups. And viewing is growing rapidly. For
many subscribers, however, watching instantly will expand in relevance as we make TV viewing easier and cheaper.
As we talked about last quarter, we have adopted a partnership strategy in terms of Internet TV connectivity. As we increase our online
content spending, our service becomes more attractive to consumers which in turn makes us more attractive to CE partners. In particular,
we want our clients' software integrated into Internet connected Blu-ray players, game consoles, TVs, and stand alone set top devices.
In January, we told you we were working with LG Electronics for a second half of  product launch. At this point, I can tell you we
have LG plus three additional partners actively working on integrating our technology into their products. Three of the four partners are
major companies which each sell millions of devices per year and will enable the Netflix functionality in some of those devices likely in Q4
of this year. The fourth partner is a small company which will likely launch sooner than Q4.
Understandably, there has been investor excitement and along with it rumors about who we have partnered with. Despite our great
success attracting major partners, about which you will see announcements in the coming quarters, these partnerships only demonstrate
our success at providing Internet delivered content to our subscribers at no additional charge. Nothing about these agreements will be
material to our financial results for the foreseeable future.
While our efforts are a necessary first step as we expand into Internet delivery, providing free access to content is not a long-term formula
for profitable growth. My second observation is that while we are off to a good start, providing consumer access to Internet-delivered
content on their TVs will require many partnerships in addition to the big ones to be announced this year.
My third and final observation is these partnerships have some execution and implementation risks as with all new technology. We will
take it year by year and model by model as we and our CE partners come to understand the opportunity better. The big challenge for us
remains the same as it was when we first launched our Internet delivery initiative, to satisfy ourselves and our shareholders that our
online content spending will result in increased subscribers and profits.
Despite my warnings to you about the many hurdles ahead, I would say we are thrilled with the progress we have achieved to date. Of
course, as we succeed at new and improved consumer models for online movie enjoyment we are sure to attract more competition. Our
competitive advantage is that if a consumer spends time on the Internet and enjoys movies, they are likely to be or become a Netflix
 
subscriber.
As we grow a larger subscriber base, our ability to offer both online streaming and DVD-by-mail at one low price means that we have a
major advantage over any stand alone Internet delivery service, at least for the many years ahead, while DVD is significant. In addition,
the Netflix Web site, which we constantly improve, includes billions of movie ratings, millions of customer reviews, and an engaged
community which makes it particularly well suited for choosing movies to instantly watch.
Let me wrap up where I began. Our goals are to be a great Internet movie service by combining DVD-by-mail with Internet streaming and
to grow subscribers and EPS every year. The midpoint of our  guidance of 27% EPS growth and 26% sub growth showed the
effectiveness of our approach. And now, I'll turn the call over to Barry.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Doug, it is Reed. A couple of years ago we were able to work out a soft landing for Wal-Mart.com because they had made a strategic
decision that it didn't make sense for them, if for some reason Blockbuster made such a decision we could probably work something out.
But they have been in the business for a couple of years. They have a big investment in their model. I would anticipate them to stay in the
business for the foreseeable future.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Next question, operator.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Okay. If the operators come back, we will flip back to the voice.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
So we will see which analysts can type their BlackBerry message fastest to us.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Brian, certainly Hollywood's closures of stores helps, but when we have done specific studies of neighborhoods, we haven't seen a super
strong correlation. So I would call it a positive background influence as opposed to a specific big driver.
We definitely saw a positive increase beyond our initial expectations for the quarter because of the Blockbuster price increase. So that
was the other contributor. Other than that, no material difference from the standard flow of the past couple of quarters.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
It is Reed again. No material change for us in the advertising climate.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Online content I think that is, Barry.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
We see the largest opportunity in multifunction devices such as Internet connected TVs, Internet connected Blu-ray players, Internet
game consoles. But the set top into stand alone is a little more flexible. So some of the early partners may do those because they're
easier to get to market. But it will be a mix and over time, I think, the volume will be in the hybrid devices.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Andy, I'm not sure exactly what you meant by CE customers. I'm going have to guess a little bit here. But today, consumers who are
Netflix subscribers can rent DVDs and then in the same subscription for the same place also watch movies on their PC.
What we would like to be able to do is make that watch movies extend to be able to watch movies on other devices. So think of it as a
different viewing option, not a different subscription or commercial option.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
As Barry said all under the subscription rubric. Our focus as a brand is really around unlimited subscription entertainment.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Do you want to do the first part, Barry?
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
I think, it's Reed here, an extension of that Lloyd, it is not fundamentally, it's not that we are getting lower CPMs materially. It is that the
CPMs we're buying are more effective with a better competitive climate and are increasing brand awareness and reputation.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Tony, it is Reed. I don't see them particularly viable for us or important to us. They're viable, I think they will be around for a long time,
and as I said in the last call, they hurt us a little bit and they help us a bunch in terms of triggering store closures because the kiosks focus
really on the top  titles, they're very new release focused in their business. So it is a net benefit to us we believe.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Derek, it is Reed. On the incremental versus replacement, we can't tell at this point. The types of consumers that are active users of
instant watching are different types of users than others. So there's no clean control group.
We are optimistic over time that there's only so many hours that people are going to watch content that there will be a substitution
effect. Second, in terms of Blockbuster and Circuit City, not sure what it means. It is just too early to tell. We will see what they decide to
do.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
And, Youssef, you asked about Redbox and I think I answered that. I think your question was probably just written before I did that.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Jim, overall, I would expect R&D pretty steady. We do do the annual salary reviews at the end of Q4 Company-wide. So maybe that's a
trigger for it.
In terms of usage we have been very pleased with the adoption of the instant watching by our consumers, but we have chosen to not give
out specific metrics on that. Similarly with target titles. We are up to 9,000 titles, up from I think it was 2,000 or 3,000 when we
launched a year and a half ago. So we have made great progress and we continue to make great progress.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Neil, I would guess it is still in the single digits. Christmas there will be a lot of players sold. So right at the end of the year it is a little bit
of a fluctuation or improvement there, but probably single digits.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
The mix change, I don't think we have said in the past, Barton, that the mix change had leveled out. Even when the mix change does level
out because of differences in churn rates due to different subscriber ages of new subscribers and old subscribers there will tend to be a
slight differential. The majority of the change that you saw this quarter in ARPU is not due to revenue changes or pricing changes in the
subscriber base. It is due to add revenue and other revenue which in aggregate account for the decline in ARPU sequentially.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
It wasn't originally contemplated in guidance, but as the quarter progressed two things happened. We increased, we decided to increase
our investment in marketing spending above the levels that we had forecast when we gave guidance.
Secondly, we forecast as the economy improves and increase in interest rates. From my perspective it was a good opportunity for us to
realize a gain in our investment portfolio that might not be there in quarters to come. So, we used the sale of the gain on the, in the
investment portfolio to, in effect, fund some incremental investing in additional marketing and faster growth and to hold the P&L cost.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
No, Doug. I would say our spending plan is about what we thought it would be three months ago and it does continue to proceed nicely
for us as we have seen the validators of the significant usage, and it is because we have a lot of online content that we have been able to
get these great partnerships that we will be talking about later this year.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Well, obviously Blockbuster has changed many times and they may change again. But for the last three months there have been fairly
minimal amounts of marketing from Blockbuster.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Great question. Thanks for asking. Yes, it is.
We use a Treasury method and because the price of the underlying stock has increased, under the Treasury method it takes fewer options
for a net exercise. As a result, the number of outstanding shares is assumed to be greater which has resulted in, I think, it is a $0.01
decrease in the projections for EPS on the same GAAP net income.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Tony, it is Reed. No, we don't see any difference in the kind of character of the new subs in the share gain over Q1 than in prior quarters.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Lloyd, it is Reed, obviously, there's a lot changing in terms of the specific new Viacom, MGM, Lionsgate initiative. It is too early to tell
what the impact of that will be in the marketplace, and then we contract for content, try to go get the best deal we can.
Sometimes that's fixed, sometimes it is pay-per-view, sometimes it's other mixed models. We are pretty flexible on that in the search for
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Heath, take us home.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Heath, it is Reed, you know, we are really excited by the usage because you don't keep using something unless you are satisfied with it.
But, again, without a control group to identify what the compare the churn to the base of people who watch a lot of movies and watch
content on their PC are different than other subscribers. So we can't tell you kind of the direct retention impact.
But we can tell you that the usage has really impressed us, that there is many more people willing to watch a lot more content than we
thought on the PCs, and we are looking forward to them expanding that to the television and the more that people interact with Netflix,
the more they feel good about it -- consumers, and the more they tell their friends about it. So very confident that it is a positive influence
for us, but without the control group can't give you a perfect sense of the number, the size of that gap.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix, Inc. - Co-founder, CEO
Well, thank you everyone for joining us on the call. I'm sorry for those technical difficulties, but you all got your questions in very well, and
we look forward to talking to you over the quarter and on our next call. Thank you.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
 
Company's Co-Founder and CEO, I'll dispense with the customary cautionary language and comment about the webcast for this earnings
call. We will make forward-looking statements during this call regarding the Company's future performance. Actual results may differ
materially from these statements due to risks and uncertainties related to the business. A detailed discussion of such risks and
uncertainties is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K filed
with the Commission on February 28th, 2008. We released earnings for the second quarter at approximately 4:00 a.m. Pacific time. The
earnings release, which includes a reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP, and this conference call are available at
the Company's investor relations' website at www.netflix.com. A rebroadcast of this call will be available at the Netflix website after 8:30
a.m. Pacific time today.
Finally, as we noted in the press release we issued earlier this morning, we are going to conduct the question portion of the Q&A via
email. Please email your questions to me at dcrawford@netflix.com. If you recall, last quarter technical difficulties forced us to take
questions via email and Reed and Barry responded to them on the call. As it happens, we received a lot of positive feedback last quarter,
so we're going to try it again this quarter. Please let us know what you think. Now I would like to turn the call over to Reed.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Thanks, Deborah and welcome, everyone. Our goal with Netflix is very simple, to materially grow subscribers and EPS every year while
expanding the unlimited enjoyment we offer with DVD by mail to also include unlimited internet streaming. Once again, our quarterly
results reflect strong progress towards this goal. We delivered our lowest ever SAC as a public company, profits at the top end of our
guidance, and ending subscribers above the midpoint of our guidance. In addition, we made significant progress on our expansion into
streaming with a launch of the Netflix player by Roku, the announcement of our X-Box partnership last week and our continued growth
in the number of movies and TV episodes available to our subscribers for unlimited streaming. We discussed at length our views on the
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
It's Reed, Barton. I don't think it's the outside advertising climate which hasn't shifted materially for us. It's mostly that we are spending
less marketing as a percentage of revenue, so we're trying to push the market less hard than we have in the past. Second, better
competitive climate than last year and then third, we made a big investment with lower prices last year, last Q3, we lowered our prices
and we think of lowering prices as a marketing investment, although it's not reflected in fact. So those three factors have helped us to
achieve this very efficient sub $30 SAC.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Barton, I answered that question. You sent it in just before I read the script, but I think I've covered that. That this year, hard to tell
because it's a late fall update. Next year we're optimistic that the cross-promotions will be economically efficient for both parties.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
On red envelope, we did some experiments, tried to figure out an economic model that was scalable and sensible, unable to do that. We
decided to close it down and all the closure costs are baked into our current guidance.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
We don't comment on usage.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
That's an interesting question and something we debate, which is the balance of really earnings versus growth. And certainly there are
good arguments that we could have taken, generated less earnings and pushed more into growth. But at the end of the day, we think it's
better to stick to our earnings targets, despite these great opportunities. And it does give us substantial room for growth so I don't feel
like we're making bad choices, but it is a very attractive opportunity when SAC is as low as it is.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Well, Amazon's pay-per-view stream service is very nicely implemented and I think what we're going to see is them also emerging to
various devices. Again, that's really the pay-per-view new release focus content and in many ways you need that, you need our
subscription service and you need ad supported content from, say, Hulu and NBC.com and ABC.com and others to really form a total
internet video solution on these devices. So I don't think it's competing against each other. We're not trying to block them. I don't know of
them trying to block us. These are really different segments, the ad supported, the pay-per-view segment and the subscription segment.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Like eight weeks ago, we haven't given any color on the specific trends around watching, it's just too early to tell and we don't have a
control group that doesn't get instant watching. So there's really no easy way for us to say anything conclusively. We're very encouraged
by the usage, people are watching, are instant watching in significantly and growing numbers. That's very exciting. But at this point we
don't have any specific numbers to provide.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Tony, thanks for the question. Again, we're not commenting on usage specifically.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
We'll be commencing the testing of Blu-ray price increases very shortly. Depending on the test results of those, then we'll move forward
with implementing.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Lloyd, I don't see anything related to the depressing economic picture that we face, which is tempting to put a lot of -- to read the tea
leaves about how it's affecting Netflix. But we're not really able to tell is that why we're going so strongly or would we have been growing
even more strongly if the economy had been strong. In terms of where subs are coming from, no real changes. New subscribers do use
more than older subscribers. But that's been true for  years for us. So no material change there. Overall, the wonderful thing about the
Netflix business is we appear to be substantially unaffected by this significant economic negative climate. So we're very happy about
that.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Blu-ray usage has continued to be very low -- low single digits. It's something that has promise over the next couple years, particularly
through this Christmas season and beyond, if player prices fall significantly. This will be the first Christmas coming up where there is
dedicated players that are at more aggressive prices.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
In terms of CapEx for digital delivery, very little impact. Most of that delivery infrastructure is through third party CDMs. So no particular
connection there.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
We haven't commented on the particulars of the duration.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Next question, direction of disc usage.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
No.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
No, we're not giving any comment on number of Roku sold. What was the second question?
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
It's something we're starting to look at, but we have to be careful about overreading it, because the first people to buy Roku boxes of
course are not typical people. So they're not necessarily representative of what we're going to see as that market expands. So while we're
looking at it, we don't think it's particularly significant.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Yes, you're right, that there's a real step function there as Microsoft releases their update to the X-Box in the late fall. We think we're
well-prepared for that, both in terms of the loads on our various servers and in terms of our financials and that's all built into our
guidance.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Yes, very early on we were disclosing number of streams. But we haven't -- what we tried to give investors some awareness of it, that the
content investment is really to drive the number of partnerships and the number of seats of internet connected TVs and that's really the
point of this aggressive early investment in content so that's why we're talking about the various deals that are signed and in process.
And that's really the payback on this big content investment.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
I don't have a good answer for you on that yet. It's something we'll look at as we get to use the Amazon 40,000 more. Obviously YouTube
has  million titles, but you have to think about the weight of the titles in some context. So a straight title count isn't probably a very
interesting way to look at these things. The way we look at it for the Netflix service is providing enough content that subscribers are very
excited about staying as a Netflix subscriber. So that's the basic subscription calculus. Again, we see the Amazon, Apple, pay-per-view
model, the Hulu, ABC advertising supported model and the Netflix subscription model as three different segments of the overall internet
video market.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Larry, it's Reed. I think I covered that just a moment ago, which is it's tempting but instead of doing that we are preserving our earnings
guidance and it's one of those many balances of earnings and growth.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
The Bay Area penetration was up  basis points to 18.8% from 18.6% and rest of country was up  basis points from 7% to 7.2% in the
end of Q2.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
No, we don't have access to the Microsoft user base, so are unable to do that survey, Michael. And whatever the current numbers are, it's
more interesting thinking about the potential, both as Microsoft markets the Netflix service to get LIVE Gold upgrades and also to sell
consoles against their competitors and as we advertise the X-Box console as a way to get instant streaming. So we're mostly excited not
about the current installed base but about the future overlap that we can both generate.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Yes, we're continuing to improve the quality of the streaming but not using our own capital. Mostly it's through better use of the CDM
market, better integration with the CDMs, better monitoring, so that's how we're achieving that. So it's a straight P&L model as opposed
to anything capitalized or on the balance sheet.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
We haven't seen any material change in the rev share climate for our purchasing so we're continuing to build our library and our
relationships with studios. So no material change there.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Barton, I haven't used the new Blockbuster service. So I'm just going by the press reports and from being a customer of Movie Link and
Movie Link is a pay-per-view model, so it competes with Amazon or Apple in that segment. So I imagine they've done a good job. Movie
Link had been well-implemented before. So we look at it and say it's another pay-per-view service and that's fine. It's just not in our
segment.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
Ryan, something that we've looked at extensively, using the areas of the country that have high kiosk penetrations, would be where and
how it affects Netflix and we haven't yet been able to detect any change in those areas. So we're relatively comfortable that as kiosks
grow, it doesn't present a direct threat to our business. We'll continue to watch that. It's still early in the DVD rental kiosk market, but
obviously the secondary benefit will come later which is with accelerated store closures which will help us.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - Co-Founder & CEO
With that, let me thank everyone for joining us for this early morning call and look forward to talking to you all next quarter.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
 
Company's co-founder and CEO, I will dispense with the customary cautionary language and comment about the Webcast for this
earnings call.
We will make forward-looking statements during this call regarding the Company's future performance. Actual results may differ
materially from these statements due to risks and uncertainties related to the business. A detailed discussion of such risks and
uncertainties is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K filed
with the Commission on February 28, 2008.
We released earnings for the third quarter at approximately 1:05 PM Pacific time. The earnings release, which include the reconciliation
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Thanks, Deborah, and welcome, everyone. I'll talk briefly about Q3 and then turn to what I imagine is on everyone's mind -- namely, how
the recession will affect Netflix.
In Q3, we added 261,000 net subscribers, down 9% on a year-over-year basis, while our total subscriber base grew to us 8.7 million, up
23% from a year ago. Our EPS was strong at $0.33, up 43% from $0.23 one year ago.
We continue to improve the Netflix service by adding more content that can be watched instantly on PCs and TVs. We are now up to more
than 12,000 choices and with the recent addition of content from Starz, CBS and Disney Channel have increased the strength of our
offering materially.
In Q3, we were very happy with a sales momentum of the $99 Roku device, which provides an inexpensive method for instantly streaming
movies and TV episodes from Netflix to the television. Additionally, in early October LG Electronics released the BD300 -- the first
Blu-ray player to include instant streaming from Netflix.
 
Part of our long-term strategy is to get our streaming client embedded in as many Blu-ray players as possible. LG Electronics was our
first such partner. And we will announce more Blu-ray partnerships as they are ready for consumers.
In addition to getting embedded in Blu-ray players, our partnership with Microsoft Xbox will help us gain more traction with consumers.
Next month, Microsoft will release a free software upgrade for all Xbox  users that includes instant streaming from Netflix.
Xbox  owners will have to connect their console to the Internet and join the $50 per year Xbox Live Gold in order to access Netflix
streaming. We will know more about its successes and potential a few quarters after it launches.
While our initiatives to deliver content to the TV are gaining real momentum, consumer comfort with watching video on a laptop is also
growing. So we are continuing to invest in improving laptop-oriented streaming from Netflix.
This quarter, we will begin the rollout of our second generation player software which runs both -- which runs on both Windows and Intel
Macs. It is a huge step forward for online video players; and we will be announcing the details shortly.
Two of the most significant events in the quarter were our deal to distribute the Starz play content and Starz's separate decision to close
Vongo. Starz is a very successful subscription content wholesaler, who had been operating a direct-to-consumer extension called Vongo.
Until recently, it looked like we might -- in a streaming world -- end up competing with the pay television networks going
direct-to-consumer. Since they have the major studios new release content locked up on long-term exclusive deals, this would have led
to a very fragmented set of consumer options and slowed the adoption of Internet delivery. So this pivot, where Starz distributes hits
Starz play service through Netflix, is very significant.
Our value ad is in our Website, in our on-demand streaming model and in our linking with DVD rental. With this new model, we think we
can generate increased profits for Starz, increased profits for Netflix and, over time, for the studios.
Now, on to the impact of the recession on our business. A quarter ago in July, I told you that we appear to be substantially unaffected by
the been economic climate.
Since July however, the economy has deteriorated markedly. It now appears that the recession means continued subscriber growth for
Netflix, but not as fast as last year. This quarter to date, our net ads are positive. In other words, we are growing but our net and so far
this quarter are about 30% less than one year ago.
For reference, our Q4 subscriber guidance is for our net ads for the fourth quarter to be between 60% below last year net ads on the
low-end to 6% above last year's net ads on the high-end. The good news is that our earnings in Q4 will come largely from existing
subscribers and not from new subscriber growth. So Q4 earnings are substantially insulated from the current climate.
This is the real power of the subscription model. If there is any effect from slower growth now, it would be more likely to boost Q4
earnings than to shrink them. A small contributor to earnings in Q4 will be our $1.00 per month surcharge for those subscribers who
have elected to enable access to the more expensive Blu-ray high-definition content.
We expect to have about 0.5 million Blu-ray enabled subs during this quarter. And this number will grow over time as Blu-ray player
prices fall from $500 to $300 and below.
In summary, we are in the midst of challenging times that have shaken consumer confidence across the country. But the fact is that
people continue to be attracted to the Netflix service and our business continues to grow, in both subscribers and earnings.
While the economic environment is out of our control and volatile, what is in our control is executing on our strategy, delivering great
service with DVDs and instant streaming, and remaining flexible in a fluid environment.
 
At this point, I'll pass it over to Barry.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Who's next? Anyone?
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
The Red Box has increased in those exit surveys. But when we look at certain areas of the country have very high Red Box penetration.
And when we try to see if we can see any increased churn in those areas relative to areas that don't yet have kiosks, we are unable to
detect any change in the underlying retention.
So it seems to me that it's a substitute for the stores. That it's the same people were leaving, but they are going to go to the kiosk instead
of a store as opposed to something that inflates our churn.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
We kept our Blu-ray stock levels at pretty good shape for the last six months and we will continue to go on. I think it will be very slow as
we get from 0.5 million to  million subscribers. It will ease in over time.
As to whether in the end it's positive or negative to current gross margin it's positive or negative to DVD economics is uncertain. It
depends on the pricing of DVD movies compared to Blu-ray movies. And we are unsure if the current Blu-ray pricing, which is a
considerable premium, will sustain as that becomes a mass product. You'll probably recall from DVD in its entry  years ago that it
 
started off premium priced and then came down.
So it's a bit of an open question on what's going to happen with Blu-ray software.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Great. Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call and I look forward to talking to you, with you again in a quarter.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
We haven't seen any material softening of those rates, such that it would improve our efficiency where we are watching the trends and
hopeful of that from our sake as the buyer of such. But nothing is broken yet.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Short answer is no, not really.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
That depends quite a bit on the economy. So, normally, we expect a relatively similar economy to what we currently have. And I think for
obvious reasons it's not healthy at this point so we will be able to update you on '09 in January.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
In my comments -- probably the question was sent in before the comments, for the first time we broke out what we've done in the first
part of October. So for the first three weeks of October we're trending approximately 30% below a year ago in terms of growth, in terms
of net additions. So our growth is positive and it's 70% as big as one year ago October.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
We don't break out details of the contract, but all of the costs of it are built into our guidance for the quarter.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Michael, there are a number of onetime events in the quarter. The largest of which was our decision to exit Red Envelope business and
those reduced our -- on an ongoing basis and spending levels in Q&A.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
As I said in my comments, there were two effects in the quarter and one is that response rates were down. And secondly we saw less by
way of word-of-mouth growth than we thought we would. So the mix of free versus pay was lower than we thought it would be in the
quarter, which contributed on average to higher SAC.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
It's opt in. So if you want Blu-ray, you go through an additional sign up as a member saying I would like Blu-ray and we say it's an extra
$1.00 and you say yes or no.
The only case where it was opt out, which is what generated the confusion, was Blu-ray used to be a free option. And of those who had
prior signed up for Blu-ray, they have an opt out of the Blu-ray status if they don't want the charge. And that is what generated the
confusion.
But for the general subscriber, going forward 8.6 million, it's opt in.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
No material change from -- there's normal seasonal patterns that we see. But there was no significant pattern, for example, related to
the economy that we saw during the quarter.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
As we announced in our prerelease of the numbers, in August -- presumably due to the Olympics and to our shipping outage -- net
additions were light which is mostly steady churn. So it's really lights in gross additions.
We think from the distraction of the Olympics and then September was relatively more strong. So it doesn't tie into the overall retail
thesis of things getting worse and worse. And I think the Olympics was a special effect for us in terms of consuming viewing hours, thus
obscuring the underlying economy.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
I would say our balance between earnings growth and subscriber revenue growth and our thinking on that has not changed materially. If
the economy changes materially over the next couple quarters, it might have to be something we would look at.
But assuming that it's no worse than today than, as Barry said, the power of the subscription model then that gives us stability through
these otherwise turbulent areas.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
I'm not sure a customer survey would really prove it to you, surveys being as general as they can. It's definitely something that we think
about which is, is it really economy or is it something else? We try to really tease apart the various competitive alternative hypotheses.
And at this point it strongly points towards economy from a range of sources, but it is something that we keep an open mind about.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
You know, Starz -- we are not privy to what their contracts are with the studios. And the studios would prefer to get a lot of money for
their content. If Starz pays them a lot of money, for -- for example -- Internet distribution rights, there's no inherent reason why the
studios want to deal with us.
So in the current deal, Starz has those rights. They paid for those rights. And it makes sense all around to build that market.
We, in addition to the Starz deal, have lots of other content in the Starz deal. It's about  titles in total. And we have over 10,000
other titles that are direct with the studios.
So we are flexible. And we will work in both ways.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
On Blu-ray, we are charging a premium and we expect to have about 0.5 million subscribers of the 8.6 million. So we have that
indication.
In streaming we don't have any hard indication yet, because we don't have a surcharge on it. Generally, people are willing to pay for what
they're active users of and don't want to pay for what they're not using. So the focus for now in the first stage of this is getting the usage
up, which is really driven by the content expansion and the platform expansion.
If we are successful on those as we have been in expanding from  titles a year and a half ago to 8,000 to 12,000 titles now to
continuing our platform expansion, then I think we are really creating consumer value, which will be able to be monetized.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
I will have to take that off line. I will get back to you. If it's off the top of my head, I'm not sure.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
While Blu-ray is [sitting] on a total titles count, on a weighted basis it is pretty strong because there's Blu-ray for all of the new releases
at this point. So you know we are optimistic player prices are falling, they are starting to get some volume.
It's the same cycle that we really have seen on DVD. And I think what we will see is like a progressive scan, was a feature that was only in
high-end DVD players and then became a feature in low-end DVD players. And after that was upscaling with H DMI out. That was a
feature on high-end DVD players and then migrated to the middle of the market and into the basic models.
To think of Blu-ray partially as a player is just a new better, upscaling player and as prices come down, people who even are just DVD
watchers are going to get a Blu-ray player because the prices are low and it upscales the DVD very nicely. So we are really pretty
optimistic as prices come down on Blu-ray players replacing DVD players.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
The key obstacles are really money. The titles are available but expensive. And what we have to do is grow the ecosystem of embedded
players that connect to the TV so that we can monetize the content expenses.
So what we see is we have steady increase in the number of players and devices. They can access the Netflix content, steadily increasing
adoption on the laptop viewing and on both Intel Mac and the PC.
And along with that, we will growth the title count. As I mentioned earlier, in the last  months we've grown it from 2,000 titles to over
12,000. So we know there's a long way to go. It's going to take many years. But we think we are doing -- making great progress on that
and we will continue to do so.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
And we've been cash flow positive every year for the past six or seven years, including during our big battles with Blockbusters. So -- .
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
As long as we have been public.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
And one part of that question was, if record [I] catalog shipments in Q3 sustainable and the answer is partially yes. As our Website gets
better at matching people with movies, that tends to shift people to catalog.
And substantially not in that it is seasonal, Q3 is the lightest season for new releases. Q4 and Q1 that we are going into are much heavier
and this Q3, because of the Olympics, studios really avoided putting out a big new releases during that time period. So it was linked
leaner in that and that is advantageous to us on catalog.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Like retailers who sell DVDs like Best Buy, Wal-Mart -- not particularly. I think they know that the consumer has a lot of options on cable
and over the Internet. And we are partnering with them to try to figure out how to sell more devices in a kind of a -- a win-win model,
 
especially pushing Blu-ray.
So don't see a lot of conflicts coming on that path.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Yes, a little bit.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
There was no big structural change during the quarter. So if there's a little (inaudible) there, it might be the outage, but there is nothing
structural going on.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
That would definitely be on the table. It depends on what that climate looks like; what the revenue growth and earnings growth look like.
But if we are in an extraordinary situation like that, then there are no sacred cows and we would look at each element.
Keeping subscribers and earnings growing has always been very important to us. You know we have had a great track record on a
year-over-year basis, keeping that going, and we want to push through this recession with that record intact.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
Yes.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President and CEO
The terms generally are, Netflix is not exclusive so they can put other video services on those platforms. Xbox already has a very
successful video on demand service under the Xbox Live Marketplace brand. And Roku has announced plans to open up a platform and
to have their platform have multiple service providers, which will help with their sales and help addressable households for us.
So we are supportive of that. It's a pretty wide-open heterogeneous world and we are embracing that.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
 
Company's Co-founder and CEO, I will dispense with the customary cautionary language and comment about the Webcast for this
earnings call.
We will make forward-looking statements during this call regarding the Company's future performance. Actual results may differ
materially from these statements due to risks and uncertainties related to the business. A detailed discussion of such risks and
uncertainties is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our annual report on Form 10-K, filed
with the Commission on February 28, 2008.
We released earnings for the fourth quarter at approximately 1:05 PM Pacific time. The earnings release, which includes a reconciliation
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Thanks, Deborah, and welcome everyone to the call. Our goal is to grow subscribers and earnings every year, while expanding into
Internet-delivered video.
We made great progress against this goal in 2008. Despite the recession, we grew our subscriber base from 8.7 million to 9.4 million
subscribers in Q4. As you can see from our Q1 guidance, we expect this strong growth to continue in the first quarter.
Paralleling our strong subscriber growth was strong earnings growth, with EPS at $0.38 for the quarter, up 65% from a year ago; at $1.32
for the full year, up 36% from 2007. The strength of our business allowed us to increase EPS at these rates while, at the same time,
substantially increasing our investment levels in Internet-delivered video.
In hindsight, in Q4, we under-forecast our subscriber growth, primarily because we underestimated the positive impact of the
 
introduction of the multifunction CE devices from LG Electronics, Samsung, Microsoft and TiVo that promote Netflix streaming.
The second smaller factor in our outperformance was better-than-expected responses to our marketing. The precise impact of the
recession is unclear, but it's very clear that streaming is energizing our growth.
While our streaming excess is exciting and we will spend some time on that later on this call, we continue to invest in improving our DVD
by mail experience. There is a lot of top and bottom line growth left in online DVD rental.
We expect our DVD and Blu-ray shipments to continue to grow in  as they did in 2008, as we improve our service levels and this
general e-commerce acceptance helps us growth despite flatness in the overall DVD and Blu-ray rental. We think our annual disk
shipments will continue to grow every year for many years. And even in the highly penetrated San Francisco Bay area, our shipments are
continuing to grow.
In terms of Blu-ray specifically, about 700,000 of our subscribers were renting Blu-ray from Netflix at the end of Q4 and adoption is
growing nicely. If Blu-ray player prices continue to fall as expected, driven by next generation chip designs, then wide adoption becomes
increasingly likely and with it extended life of disk-based viewing.
Our growing scale gives us many operational advantages. We are now up to nearly  distribution centers across America and can
provide delivery to over 97% of our subscribers in about one business day.
This quarter, we will be attempting weekend shipping in parts of the country which will provide even faster service, both for those new
subscribers who sign up over the weekend and for those subscribers returning movies at the end of the week.
The payoff of this relentless, operational focus is the competitive advantage of continuing high levels of customer satisfaction. We once
again came in on top of [4C] results ranking of customer satisfaction for e-commerce, tied this time at number one with Amazon.
Our success in DVD by mail is driving our earnings growth as well as fueling our Internet delivery. We are working hard to ensure that our
success in DVD by mail continues.
Turning to streaming, in Q4, we substantially increased our investment in streaming content. And we plan to substantially increase our
spending on streaming content in 2009.
We have a basic plan at $4.99 per month that offers some streaming of some content and we have premium unlimited plans starting at
$8.99. One of our content investments is to include Stars Play in all of our premium plans. Stars Play includes the major films of Sony
and Disney.
Most of our streaming spend -- most of our streaming content spending however is directly with TV networks and studios. We now have
over 12,000 movie and TV choices up from [2000, two] years ago and we plan to spend as much money as we can with the studios
licensing as much content as we can. And we are already one of the studio's largest Internet revenue sources.
Our spending is limited away by what content is available at reasonable prices. And what we can afford in total, given our earnings goals.
Our existing subscribers are watching instantly in ever greater numbers. And in just the last month, millions of our subscribers got more
value from their Netflix subscription by streaming.
The more subscribers watch online from Netflix, the more likely we think they are to remain subscribers and to watch slightly fewer DVDs
in a month. Since we don't have a control group of random subscribers who are not enable for [instant] watching, we can tell you exactly
how large these positive effects on churn and disk usage are, but we believe they exist.
Increased streaming content not only helps us with our current subs, but also helps us with CE partnerships. One of the main reasons LG
 
Electronics, Samsung, Microsoft, TIVO, and others want to offer Netflix streaming to their customers is instant access to compelling
content with a promise of even more content to come.
This helps them differentiate their products against non-Netflix-ready devices and adds value to the customer. The LG Electronics and
Samsung Blu-ray players in particular had a very high connect rate during the fourth quarter. That is, a high percentage of purchasers
are subscribing to Netflix.
Xbox and TIVO had a lower percentage, but larger total numbers, due to their software update to their substantial install basis. While we
don't pay or charge anything to have our software included in devices, we do pay our partners to generate new Netflix subscribers.
In other words, some of our marketing dollars are going to our CE partners to help create demand for new Netflix subscribers. And that is
included in our subscriber acquisition cost. Nearly all the CE-generated subscribers also rent DVDs from Netflix, which really reinforces
the importance of the DVD streaming combination subscription. For the long period, the DVD is relevant to consumers.
If our CE partners can make more money from promoting us than promoting other services because of our broader relevance then we will
be able to maintain a preferred placement over time. We continue to gain new and deeper partnerships with CE manufacturers. At CES a
few weeks ago, Samsung and LG announced the expansion of Netflix into a wider range of their Blu-ray models in 2009. And to have the
Netflix application included directly in some of the LG broadband-connected televisions.
Similarly, we announced our first partnership with Visio to have the Netflix application included in their televisions. We are in discussions
with nearly every major CE company and, one by one, we hope to be able to broadly cover the Blu-ray category and the Internet TV
category over the next few years.
In terms of having our Netflix application included in additional video game consoles, we currently have an exclusive deal with Microsoft
Xbox. We have been very busy expanding our CE device partnerships, but we also added support for Apple Computers and improved our
PC-based player. We see the laptop as a significant long-term viewing platform, not as an intermediate step towards something else,
and are investing accordingly and continuing to improve our laptop-based player.
Our first CE partner, Roku, recently announced that their devices -- including the installed base of Netflix players -- would be updated to
include the Amazon pay-per-view service. We are fully in support of this and let me explain why.
There are three primary economic models for streaming. Add supported such as Hulu and You Tube, pay-per-view such as Amazon and
Apple, and subscription such as Netflix. The downside of our CE partners adding the Amazon pay-per-view service is more competition
for Netflix, but the competition is pretty indirect because most of the pay-per-view business is in big new releases that we don't offer on
streaming subscription.
The upside is that Amazon will also be promoting the streaming CE devices, which provides us more households to stream our service to.
Similarly, CE companies are adding the add supported services to their devices. The combination of all of these models will accelerate
adoption of video streaming.
At some point, the ad supported companies or the pay-per-view company may decide to also provide subscription like Netflix. The Netflix
competitive advantages are that we combine streaming with DVD rental, and that our large subscriber base helps us support more
content, and that we are significantly subsidized streaming content for the next few years.
Our intent is to focus exclusively on our subscription model as it is large -- as it is a large enough opportunity for us and we are more
likely to prevail by focusing on subscription. Consumers who subscribe to Netflix also go to movie theaters, buy DVDs, subscribe to cable,
use pay-per-view services, watch YouTube and Hulu, and even read DVDs from local stores.
No firm or model owns an entertainment customer and we think there is room for us to create a large subscriber base while other firms
also succeed with their model.
 
All in all, we are making solid progress in our online video efforts. We are still in investment mode for Internet delivery, but we can see
how between the CE partner promotion and the possibly reduced disk usage, we should be able to keep increasing our content
investment while, at the same time, growing earnings in accordance with our desires.
In terms of competition, the market for entertainment video remains intense. DVR-based television continues to grow. Free ad-supported
Internet video services are growing. Kiosk-based $1.00 DVD rentals continue to grow. VOD from both cable and the Internet companies is
growing, and video stores are only shrinking slowly.
Despite this intense marketplace activity, our consumer proposition is working well. And we continue to significantly expand our
subscriber base.
I will close where I started. We had a strong fourth quarter capping off a solid year. We had good growth in our core DVD offering and
growing momentum in our instant watching. We currently expect to hit  million subscribers this quarter, which is a wonderful, hugely
symbolic milestone of which we are proud.
And now, I'll turn it over to Barry.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
As Barry said, we are going to increase the spending faster than revenue growth. If you are looking for title count, we are trying not to get
measured by that because sometimes a single set of big titles makes a bigger difference than 1,000 small titles.
So there's some correlation with title count and it will continue to rise, but what we want to do is have more and more relative content for
our subscribers. And we have made good progress on that to date.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Well, difficult for us to respond to changes in our forecast as compared with your expectations since, obviously, we are on slightly
different pages. I'd remind you that as the business grows faster, we also incur marketing expenses associated with the growth in those
subscribers and then over the life of those subscribers, we capture value in terms of lifetime profit and enterprise value.
So it may simply be a timing difference.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Red Envelope. Yes. We're not sure what the other --.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
I think that might be a reference to, we've had in our customer support group, people who had to debug low-level PC issues because our
software had low-level PC bugs. We did a new release of our PC watching client which is substantially free of those errors.
And so we were able to release a number of those technical specialists to customer support. So I think that is what that's in reference to.
Which is, there wasn't work for them to do that was technical in nature.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
I don't know that we've ever pulled the majority of our subscribers from current or past Blockbuster subscribers. I don't perceive a
material change in our -- where subscribers come from. A lot of them, they are multiuse customers. They do pay-per-view, they buy, they
rent, they are involved in media.
So there's no big shift there that we've perceived about where subscribers come from.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
There's definitely a possibility. There is nothing that prevents us from offering dedicated. Our view on it is, the bulk of the market is
interested in the big new releases and in the subscription and we're able through the DVD combination to provide that.
So it is definitely a possibility for the future. But we don't think there's a big market there for dedicated streaming -- or streaming only,
given the content availability situation, which is roughly 100,000 titles on DVD and about 12,000 on streaming.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
That's not an area as I went through my comments about pay-per-view and when whether pay-per-view or streaming or download, it's
essentially the same thing. That is really about our brand. Our brand is really about a monthly entertainment subscription and that's
what we're focused on. So we don't have any plans to be involved in those markets where Amazon, Apple, Blockbuster, a few others play.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
I don't know if they are really broad technological hurdles but the broad hurdles are just having people get used to it. First stage is having
people watch Internet video on their PC -- their laptop, from You Tube, from Hulu, from CNN, from Netflix. Second stage is through
Internet-baked devices -- game consoles, Blu-ray, TV.
And then what you'll see is more and more content providers follow ABC, CBS, etc., and provide the streaming on the Web. So the
ecosystem is building very nicely; Internet video is on a significant rise and that's bringing in advertisers, subscription, pay-per-view and
all the content providers.
So I think we'll see very significant growth in online video over the next five years, and we intend to participate in that.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
I'm going to hold off on providing any detail on that for competitive reasons.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Helps the rest of our marketing work and similarly the more that we spend on marketing, it reinforces all those things with our CE
partners and gets people who want Netflix service then, to buy those devices. So they both reinforce each other in very positive ways.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
That's a good insight that there is really no reason not to include the Netflix offering. So it has purely been technology which has, some
chip platforms are more able to handle the streaming of DRM and some take a little longer in the porting activity.
Some companies perceive it as a high priority to get Netflix in and they will allocate the team early. Other companies haven't yet seen it
as a high priority. But in all cases, it is not a negative. It is purely around the amount of work that it takes to get in; and the good news is
we are getting better and better as we do more and more of these platforms of making it easier to put in.
So I think you can expect a broader range of partners over the year. But again, you don't quite want to think about it as -- or strictly not
think about it as a number of partners. You want to think of it as kind of a percentage of devices that are sold.
That is, a few big partners make a bigger difference than a whole lot of smaller ones. So I think our efforts are focused in the right way.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Only slightly does it renew the interest. You know we would be on the international doing streaming only there and I don't know if there is
enough content and a large enough ecosystem to do that. In terms of first mover damage, I'm sure there are. We would love to be the
first mover in those categories. I'm not 100% sure we will be.
But for now, we are focused on growing in this very large opportunity in the US and adding, spending more on content and continuing to
grow earnings and subscribers in the US.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
We haven't released specific numbers on how many devices. I think what you've seen in our investments is that we -- our strategy is
working. That is, we are getting in devices and it is manifesting itself positively in the P&L and the more that it manifests itself positively
in the P&L, we will be able to ask you to judge us purely by the P&L which is easier for everyone than the indirect of how many partners.
 
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
And then, you asked about DVD length. Nothing has changed our view that our shipments and rentals will continue to grow and peak
some time in  to  as best we can tell.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Of course, Barry meant they are Q1 and Q4 are the top growth. You said Q2 (multiple speakers).
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
There is no way for us to tell. We are very thankful that would done so well, but whether that is because of the recession or despite it,
there's no strong evidence to either side.
 
Reed Hastings Netflix - President, CEO, and Co-founder
Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. To recap and close, the business performed very strongly in Q4 and it looks great
quarter to date. We are really beginning to see the payoff from our investment in Internet-delivered video. And I look forward to updating
you on our continued progress  days from now. Thank you very much.
 