John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
 
directly comparable GAAP results, which can be found in the press release and on our website. Now, I would like to introduce our CEO,
Mr. John Thompson.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thanks, Helyn, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm excited by the team's ability to execute our operating plan and deliver solid June
quarter results. Performance was strong in all geographies, with international growth remaining robust and with North America posting
strong double-digit results. The salesforce continues to focus on upsell and cross-sell opportunities resulting in record June quarter large
transaction volumes. Healthy spending on storage management solutions continued during the quarter, as growth in data volumes
continues for our customers around the world. In addition, our investments in higher growth areas, like archiving and data protection are
paying off. As an example, the integration of our duplication technology with net backup has ignited an important growth opportunity for
us, and our archiving business continues to build on its market-leading position.
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
It will drive higher license content, if anything, as opposed to affect the ASP. Because the focus in the operating plan is for the team to try
to drive net new licenses or new placements within an enterprise. So in that context, perhaps you could translate that into higher ASP,
but in our view it's much more about license content.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think you got it exactly right and that is that we are seeing multiple products being part of these larger transactions. I also think you're
starting to see a little bit more of products that are not just either storage or security, but the combination of the two. I think those are
probably the two biggest factors. Plus I think as we mentioned, our storage foundation business had its best quarter in as long as -- in
many years and so I feel very good about some of our core data center products perform very, very well. So the combination of those
three factors I think drove the large deal volume.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Phil, we've been quite pleased with that relationship with Guardian Edge. Obviously as the pipeline continues to build, that represents a
good opportunity for both of our companies. We have made no decisions about changing that relationship or any other as it might add to
purchase something in the encryption space and so when we have something to say other than what we're doing, we'll talk about it then.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, most of the things we've done of late have been small transactions, actually small private Company transactions. I think as the
liquidity opportunities for private companies continues to be challenging, it would make it much more attractive for them to consider a
strategic purchase by a buyer like Symantec. We believe that that will create an opportunity for us for the next few years because there
 
are forecasts that would suggest there's going to be a tight IPO market for probably  to  months. And so as we said at our analyst
conference, we intend to continue to be acquisitive around the notion of securing and managing the world's information content and to
the extent that there's something out there that complements that vision for us, you should expect to see us be active acquirers.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, it's equally strong for September. I don't think we quoted a specific number in June for the June quarter. But I would tell you that as
we look at the statistics that we review weekly on sales force force.com, we feel very, very strong or solid about what's going on this
quarter and how deals greater than 50% odds, the coverage for those are in our pipeline, so we're feeling good about the quarter.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thank you.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think what's driving us, Walter, is data volumes for all of our customers are growing and to the extent that they have made a choice of a
provider or a platform, that certainly gives you as the platform option the opportunity to grow as their volumes grow. In our particular
case, I think what you're seeing is the results of the team being very, very focused on integrating innovative technologies into the Core
Net Backup, or Backup Exec products, and with Deduplication now, integrated into Net Backup with a number of really, really snazzy
features in our Backup Exec product, you're starting to see the market leader take share, as it should always.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Todd.
 
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, gee, Todd, it's hard to even think about pricing power when our customers are hurting economically, and so I think we look at new
functions and capabilities that we want to deliver into the marketplace and I think the best way to exercise price power, if you want to call
it that, is through new innovation. Customers are certainly willing to pay for new innovation. They are less willing to pay for across the
board price increases and we just don't think that's the smart thing to do, particularly in challenging economic times.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, clearly with 80% or more of the activity being online, we have very, very solid visibility into daily, if not weekly activity in the online
channel. We operate with a sell-through and a reporting structure that allows us to understand what's going on at retail and if anything,
we worry about a continued decline in retail as a part of our overall consumer business.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, if I were to reflect on the June quarter, what I would say is because our quarter closed on July 4, it was a much smoother quarter
close than we have historically had, and so we did not have the back end loaded last day, last 48-hour kind of activity in the June quarter
that we've seen in other quarters. Ironically enough, as we move forward through this quarter, we have a similar situation where the
quarter will close on October 3, I think, which should give us a chance to kind of smooth things out because of normal behavior, if you
will, of our customers who would tend to look to the last day of the quarter as the last day in which we would be looking to book a deal.
In terms of visibility, as I've mentioned earlier, we opened this quarter with very, very good pipeline coverage. As you look at deals in the
pipeline with 50% or greater odds, look at deals with total odds, all of those things are very solid, consistent with similar metrics, if you
will, as we enter the June quarter. So we feel good about our business and we feel even better about, quite frankly, how the team is
executing around the world.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think where I would start is while we saw good traction in our large deals, I think in some ways it's easier to highlight what's happened
at the high end of the market or in the larger deals. But we did see performance across all product lines and all segments, and across the
geographies. And so what that means to us is that we are getting the benefit of our broader portfolio and that our products are necessary
in these -- in this current environment. The other thing is we mentioned that our Backup Exec business and our backup business was
growing at 20%. A lot of the success of that product line is in the SMB segment, where you get a lot of folks were using the Windows
platform and we're clearly the market leader in backup and recovery for the small and medium-size companies. So we don't -- we haven't
seen any changes there and don't expect anything to be different in the September quarter.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think that what we're getting right now is while we continue to do large stand-alone deals, you are seeing the benefit to the other parts
of the security portfolio. And what's important in DLP that initially it was DLP at the network level. Now what you're seeing are customers
say they want to see the benefit at the end point. And so given our strong position at the end point with Symantec end point protection,
the Altiris client management suite, we think that the combination of DLP, systems management and our core end point security
products gives us a very strong position and we can definitely see DLP becoming part of more and more of our security deals.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, thank you very much for joining in this afternoon. I'm quite proud of our team's performance in the June quarter. We have a very
solid pipeline and very strong visibility as we head into September. Execution is improving. Our product portfolio is quite strong, and so I
think we are starting to hit our stride and I'm quite proud of our team. Thanks for doing another great job, guys.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
 
Now, I'd like to introduce our CEO, Mr. John Thompson,.
 
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Helyn and good afternoon, everyone. In the face of a slowing economic environment, our Company generated year over year
growth in revenue demonstrated solid progress on operating margin goals and delivered strong earnings growth.
Our core businesses consumer security, back up and storage, continue to grow and drive profitability for our Company. And we saw solid
performance in the large enterprise buyer segment as illustrated by the strength of our big deals during the September quarter.
While we are pleased overall with the results, like many other companies, we saw a pause in IT spending among some of our customers
during the last week of the quarter due to what we suspect were uncertainties and constraints in the global markets. And as expected,
the strengthening of the dollar versus other currencies around the world also impacted our financial results.
While a stronger dollar is certainly an important metric of the health of the U.S. economy relative to other economies, it will continue to
have an impact on our results for the December quarter.
Therefore, we are updating our business outlook to reflect the likelihood of a continued economic slow down and the change in foreign
currency rates.
In addition, we intends to maintain our flexibility with customers in tailoring transaction to say assist them in acquiring technologies they
need during, to whether this tough economic times. The strength of our financial position, as well as our focus on areas where we can
outperform our competitors, should position us well in this marketplace.
As always, we will continue to be prudent in managing our cost and expense. We've identified incremental cost saving areas and are
making them part of our continuous improvement approach.
These new actions are consistent with the efforts we have had in place which have produced the improvements in operating margins over
the past four quarters. These actions are intended to align our cost structure with the new realities driven by the economic environment.
James will provide a bit more detail on our plans in a few minutes.
We think customers will take advantage of this environment to both rationalize the products they use and the vendors they buy from.
In speaking with customers around the world they feel certain areas must continue to garner their attention and capture the lion's share
of any new investment they are like to the make over the next year or so.
All of these investments must meet stringent ROI standards and support the requirements to create a less complex, more compliant IT
infrastructure. Some examples of these areas include more comprehensive storage management solutions to help lure overall hardware
spending.
Rich day loss prevention solutions to deal with rapidly changing employee and subcontractor or contractor environment and services that
allow them to selectively out task those things no longer deemed to be critical for them to manage.
Our storage business, for example, certainly benefits from the ROI based selling approach we put in place more than a year ago. And the
reason be enhancement to our data loss prevention solution are timely and consistent with what our customers say they need know to
manage in today's more uncertain times.
We will stay focused on executing our strategy to secure and manage information against more risk, at more points, more completely
and efficiently than any other Company in the world. Our development teams have been working diligently to deliver next-generation
products for compliance and systems management.
 
Let me spend a minute discussing a couple of these offerings. In the compliance arena, our integrated process automation solution
control compliance suite 9.0 helps organizations generate, create and maintain a sustainable compliance program in accordance with
governance mandates and their risk management strategies.
Importantly, it should allow our customers to achieve their compliance objectives at a much lower cost than manul or more traditional
approaches. Our next release of Altier seven leverages proven infrastructure and technology to deliver a tightly integrated solution to
help customers automate many of the labor intensive processes they use today in their distributor and client server infrastructure. The
Symantec management platform, a core technology of our open collaborative architecture will be used to integrate technologies from
many of our key products including Symantec End Point Protection, Backup Exec Systems Recovery, Configuration Management and
Data Loss Prevention.
Our customers are really excited about these products and the progress we are making in integration across our portfolio. Something
that will be difficult for some others, certainly some competitors to achieve through partnerships alone.
We are well-positioned to keep our business growing and to return value to shareholders. We've got a strong balance sheet, a solid
recurring model, minimal capital expenditure requirements and a continued focus on improving the efficiency of our business operations.
These attributes when combined with our strong product portfolio, diverse customer base and investments in key product growth areas
position our company for continued long-term success. With that, I'll turn the call over to Enrique, who will provide more detail on the
sent quarter highlights.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
If we look at the strength in our storage and back up business, I think what you are seeing is that we now have a very strong product line
across both the windows platform and the more distributed platforms and given some of the new features that we have been adding, our
strength in banking up, virtual environments and some of the other things we've done in data duplication are really starting to pay off.
So we are absolutely now given the strength of those products making a lot of progress against the competition where not only in large
accounts but also in the mid market. So we continue to see the strength in those products and I think we will continue to gain market
share there.
I think when you look at the end point security business or the security business, I think what you've seen is, we continued to well in large
enterprise but we did see some softening in the mid market as we delivered the semantic end point protection technology into that
segment.
My sense is right now, that that's more impacted by some of the things going on in the macro environment and I fully expect with the new
release of our new maintenance releases, maintenance release three, that the performance improvements will shine in the mid market
and continue to improve our position in that segment.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Heather, I think it would be fair to say that we saw softness in mid market in the low end of the enterprise segment as we entered the last
week of our fiscal quarter. Which happened to be the week of the Monday $700 million decline in the Dow. So it was an interesting time
to be trying to close business.
It was characterized in the segments that I just mentioned. It had a particularly strong impact, quite frankly in Europe and the U.S.
compared to APJ and many of those were deals that just pushed as opposed to deals that essentially went away or we lost to
competition.
Now, the question is for how long have they pushed. Do they show up in our December quarter results or do they become an issue that
will continue to chase until the economic environment improves just a bit. And let me have James answer the second half of your
question.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I wish I had that crystal ball, Heather.
I do think our teams are very mindful of where the transactions are. What the issues are that might cause them to move with customers.
As I said in my planned remarks, I think we are going to have to use the strengths of our financials to help move transactions along.
That does not mean that we go and do crazy things that pollute our balance sheet, but we should come through this a lot stronger than
companies that don't have the financial muscle that we have.
And so Enrique and James and I will certainly be working with the geographic leader to say make sure we can structure transactions that
able, recognizing it in the period, and building a deferred revenue revenue pool that underpins the cash flow of the company.
 
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Sarah, I don't think this is a time for us to be cavalier about our guidance and overly aggressive in forecasting what we think the macro
economic environment might produce.
And while I would never want to have this characterized as conservative guidance, our view is that we need to make sure given what we
observed at the end of the September quarter. We factor that into our thinking with respect to what could very well happen in December.
December historically has been the strongest sequential growth period for us. It's the period in which we do the largest amount of
business and the largest amount of transactions with large enterprise customers but we cannot ignore the fact that many of our
customers are suffering. And as such, that could have some consequences on us.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think if we look at the consumer business, Sarah, it's pretty clear that retail has continued to soften. And as I mentioned in my
comments, we've seen basically we are down about 20% year over year on the retail side. On line has continued for us to do well. I think
we are 10% year over year growth. And we do see a continued move to on line. That hasn't -- I haven't seen a big change in the business
we are doing on line at this point but retail has been the weak spot.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Given that much of it, Sarah, is in the retail channel it's hard to discern whether or not it's a repeat buyer into the store or brand new
buyer who hasn't shown up in the store.
And I think you might get some color on that as you see what some of the electronic retailers announce as their results as time go on, or
as time goes on.
But fundamentally the on line channel remains quite strong for us. But retail has been a source of agony for lack of a better term for us
for four to six quarters now. It's been on a steady decline and we saw a fairly precipitous drop during the September quarter.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Correct.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Yes, we didn't break out -- we didn't break out the difference between  and Norton Internet Security but as you look at it right now,
 is roughly 28% of the revenue in the consumer business and I expect that to continue to move in becoming a larger and larger mix of
consumer revenue because what we are doing is trying to encourage our customers to continue to move from the point products to the
higher end suite, which is Norton 360.
As far as the holiday season and our expectations, we are -- we do believe that we've got a premium product that will do well. But it's
important to note that it's too early to the tell how much demands we are going to see in the holidays.
We are well-positioned for what's known as Black Friday, which is the day after Thanksgiving, which is the biggest retail shopping day of
the year. In a lot of the work, we've done with our partners. But ultimately its too early for me to try to predict how many folks are going to
be in stores this holiday season.
 
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Yes, I don't think you could say that we are good enough to declare that effects that we saw in the 13th week of the September quarter
are going to perpetuate themselves quarter after quarter after quarter. Or week after week.
I think what you can say or observe in our forecast, is a sense that there will be a sluggishness in the way customers are willing to not just
consider transactions but actually commit to those transactions. That's more likely to be reflected in what happens in the last two weeks
of our quarter.
That's always the bewitching hour, if you will, for an enterprise software company because that's when the vast majority of the big deals
get done.
With respect to verticals clearly Financial Services and Telecom are important sectors for us and the enterprise revenues sector or
 
component of our business alone, Financial Services including banks and commercial bank's and insurance represents in the range of 
to 15% of revenue.
And so we are very mindful of what's going on there and we are watching that very, very closely. If that's the specific vertical you are
referring to.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I mean, I think the point is no one is going to go on the Internet without our security software and I think that's the most important
independent of the price you pay for the underlying computer what we've seen what matters is the data on that computer and you don't
want to risk losing data or your identity or having any other problems with what you are doing on that PC.
So I think that the price point of the PC is not indicative around the demand for our security software.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
I think that we are obviously sensitive to what's happening with our customers but we are not changing our go to market strategy at all.
 
We obviously are being sensitive to what's the term of the agreement that they are looking for but I don't expect to see any material
difference in what we've done in previous quarters over the last year.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, Michael, we think this is is about the strength in the diversity of our portfolio that at any given moment in time we might have a
weaker segment than we would hope or expect but that will be offset by strength in another sector or segment. And we have been trying
to build a business for the last four, five years that has been about diversity.
Product diversity, customer based diversity and geographic diversity. And sometimes those points work to your advantage. Sometimes
they work against you. Clearly currency has worked against us this quarter. That was a challenge if you will with the geographic side.
But by contrast the storage business performing as well as it did really does underpin the validity we think in our portfolio strategy and
our ability to go to large customers and say, you've got an array of things that you can do with us. Let's sit down and structure a
transaction that reflects spending across the domain of activity we have that could in fact lead to stronger market share for us on the
back ends of this economic downturn.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
We have seen some close but it would be typical with normal patterns, John. Every quarter you have deals slip.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Some of those deals do get done in the first week or first month of the subsequent quarter.
I think what was the bigger surprise to us this quarter was the shear volume of not just the number but the dollar volume of what slipped.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
It was a range. There was a full range. There were, there was at least one really big one that we were looking at and there were a number
of other that is we would have loved to have gotten. It's the typical pipeline management issues.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Good question. Candidly, UK, France were weaker than we expected. The UK is our largest region within the AMIA territory and it had a
weaker close as did France. Than we would have expected. By contrast, Germany had a very solid quarter.
And as some of you will recall, we have been working on building and improving our business in Germany for quite sometime and we
were pleased to see the performance in Germany during the September quarter.
That said, better perform in the UK and France would have certainly helped overall Europe results.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Correct. Just need to be bigger, that's all.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Well, thank you very much everyone for dialing in. We posted strong solid earnings performance in the September quarter.
We've got our eye on the issues that we think we need to manage in this uncertain economic environment. Not just in terms of what
products we deliver and the strength of the relationships we have with our customers but what we do on the cost side of our business to
make sure we are being thought full and prudent.
We believe that the strength of our portfolio, the strength of our balance sheet, and quite frankly, the resolve of our team will help to
carry us through during these uncertain economic times.
We look forward to communicating with you about our progress as the quarter unfolds. Thanks very much.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
 
directly comparable GAAP results, which can be found in the press release and on our website. Now I'd like to introduce our CEO, Mr.
John Thompson.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Helyn, and good afternoon everyone. We are pleased to report stronger than expected December quarter results, against the
backdrop of a challenging global economy. More importantly I'm quite pleased that our financials are reflecting our team's commitment
to improving our execution. Solid sales activity, coupled with our ongoing focus on managing our cost structure, drove the over
performance for the quarter. We were able to deliver revenue above our forecast despite our customers continued scrutiny of their IT
 
budgets.
Customers tell thus they will allocate funds to areas of storage optimization, data loss prevention, and enterprise security. Furthermore,
their attention is turned to initiatives that will drive immediate cost savings, rather than longer term investment programs. I'm pleased
that our sales force has been able to successfully illustrate the positive impact our solutions can have on our customers' operating cost.
Our enterprise business benefits from a large recurring revenue base, particularly in the storage segment where more than half of our
revenue comes from maintenance contracts.
In our consumer segment we were able to leverage our existing customer base, a very strong customer base, to continue the migration to
Norton 360. In addition our recent acquisition of PC Tools and SwapDrive are important elements of our strategy to expand into the
emerging geographic markets and the online back up segment. Our higher than expected non-GAAP earnings this quarter are the result
of our very effective cost management programs. The combination of our top line growth, our cost and expense management programs,
and our ongoing share repurchases has enabled us to achieve seven consecutive quarters of double-digit earnings growth.
Looking forward to our March quarter the final quarter of our fiscal year, we expect the market environment to remain challenging.
However, we are confident in the competitiveness of our products and services, and the determination of our team. We will maintain our
focus on execution, striking the right balance between achieving efficiency and sustaining strong business performance, without
compromising our ability to serve our customers. In an environment where revenue growth may be the greatest uncertainty, our goal is to
grow our earnings and emerge from this economic downturn a stronger Company, positioned for ever greater success in the next
economic cycle.
With that I'll turn it call over to James for financial details.
 
CEOs around the world.
 
John Thompson Symantec - Chairman, CEO
Thank you very much. With that I guess I would close by saying I'm particularly proud of our team and their ability to execute so well in
what is undoubtedly a very challenge economic environment. We would expect that environment to continue, but we would also expect
our team to maintain their resolve and their focus to deliver the best results that we can. I couldn't have been more proud to have spent
ten years at Symantec, so thank you very much.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
 
And now I would like to introduce our new CEO, Mr. Enrique Salem.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
Thank you, Helyn, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter marks a solid close to fiscal year 2009. The breadth and depth of our
portfolio contributed to the solid results despite the current macro economic environment and currency headwinds during the second
half of the year. Results for the quarter were driven by strength in enterprise backup, storage management, data loss prevention, and
consumer. Our strong non-GAAP earnings per share are a result of eliminating unnecessary costs and shifting our spending to areas with
the greatest returns. We continue to generate substantial cash flow from operations and strong deferred revenue.
Now I'd like to highlight a few key items of our fiscal fourth quarter. In our consumer segment, despite the decline in PC units, we
continue to strengthen our leadership position as highly publicized threats such as Conficker and trojan.h. have increased consumer
awareness for the need for security software to protect their personal data.
We continue to expand our category leadership by bringing innovative products and services to market. In the March quarter, we shipped
Norton  Version 3.0 that has an ultralight footprint and fast performance that is the hallmark of our  product line. Norton 
has already won PC Magazine and Computer Shoppers' Editors Choice award. Furthermore, Symantec's Norton line of products have
received top scores from several of the industry's preeminent independent testing bodies. In the most recent review from AV
Comparatives, Symantec was the only vendor to be awarded top ratings in all three tested categories -- detection, false positives, and
performance.
Additionally, Symantec has received Virus Bulletin's VB  award  consecutive times, dating back to 1999. No other competitor has
had our record. This record underscores Symantec's ability to provide the best protection against malware to our customer, something
that no other competitor can match. Customer feedback has shown that satisfaction across all areas of the product's experience are at an
all-time high, particularly in the area of performance.
Despite the market's emphasis on our relationship with HP, HP represents only one of numerous OEM relationships we have around the
world. We have meaningful relationships with HP, Dell, Acer including Gateway and Packard Bell, Lenovo, Fujitsu, Toshiba, ASUS, and
Sony among many others. We continue to aggressively pursue valuable OEM deals, recently winning multiple competitive agreements.
We will be shipping on Dell's global small business line, and also their gaming line. We are renewing our relationship with Lenovo's
ThinkPad brand, and have also extended our agreement with Acer.
In the netbook segment, our  product continued to be an attractive choice. In addition to the ASUS agreement announced last
quarter, we signed contracts to ship NIS on Dell and HP minis this quarter. Although the price of PCs has steadily fallen over the past
 
decade, security software prices have not. This is due to the fact that it is not the cost of the underlying PC, but the value of the
information and content on the PC that matters.
Norton Online Backup, which shipped during the quarter is giving us additional and unique traction with OEMs. We have already signed
an agreement to ship a  day trial of Norton Online Backup with Sony [Europe]. Norton Online Backup also creates a new opportunity to
partner with ISPs. We have signed an agreement to provide back up for a major ISP in North America. We currently host over 
petabytes of customer data and have more than  million active customers. That's seven times more customers than our nearest
competitors. Our Norton Online Backup product allows us to expand beyond traditional security and introduce more consumers to our
trusted Norton brand.
Next in our enterprise business, we are seeing the results from our solutions ability to simplify heterogeneous environments and reduce
spend by commoditizing infrastructure. In our data center business, the March quarter saw the first results from our Stop Buying Storage
marketing campaign. There are four key opportunities that our customers are benefiting from. Those are -- one, storage resource
management; two, thin provisioning; three, data deduplication; and four, intelligent archiving. Our software enables customers to
decrease the hardware spend by increasing utilization rates across multiple hardware platforms. The strong sales momentum created by
the Stop Buying Storage campaign accelerated throughout the quarter with the teams tracking over  specific new enterprise
opportunities. Additionally, we are extending our lead in thin provisioning by securing the commitment to the top storage array vendors
to support our storage foundation and provisioning APIs including new solutions with Hitachi Data Systems and [Three Par] data.
Our data center backup and deduplication products posted strong year-over-year growth. Net Backup, the number one backup solution
for the enterprise, continued its strong performance as the market moved to next generation data protection. Our deduplication product,
PureDisk, in particular performed well during the quarter. PureDisk can reduce total storage required for disk space backup by over 
times.
Earlier this week, we have started shipping Symantec Endpoint Protection Small Business Edition. We expect to improve performance in
the mid market through this product. Symantec Endpoint Protection Small Business Edition provides comprehensive protection with
simple management capabilities and preconfigured settings that allow small businesses to get up and running quickly. We are working
with our partners to make sure they are fully educated on the benefits of the new product. We believe this release will enable Symantec
Endpoint Protection to extend its success in the large enterprise to the SMB space.
Also in our enterprise security products group, data loss prevention continued its fifth quarter of double digit year-over-year revenue
growth. Our customers tell us our products are two years ahead of our competitors' offerings. Studies have shown in the market of
uncertain job security, data loss prevention has become even more relevant for our customers.
Additionally, we are now shipping the Altiris Client Management Suite 7.0 and Server Management Suite 7.0. Both management suites
utilize workflow technology to provide the necessary automation and integration from a central location to help our customers reduce
the time it takes to manage their assets, improve security, and reduce operational costs. Both suites are built on the Symantec
Management platform, which provides integration across Symantec's product portfolio and third party solutions. The work flow engine
facilitates integration into the customer's environment and enables our partners to sell more value-added services.
Finally, this quarter, Dell began shipping every server with their next generation Management Console as a native solution built on
Symantec's management platform. This presents an opportunity to upsell our new Altiris suite as well as many Symantec products that
will simply snap into the platform, including our Backup Exec information manager and Backup Exec system recovery. Dell Management
Console ships with every server Dell sells, further validating Symantec's strength of technology and architecture.
I will now turn the call over to James to provide you the financial details before I discuss my focus areas as I look forward to fiscal year
2010.
 
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
Thank, James. Now five weeks into my leadership role, I would like to take a moment to discuss my plans for the new fiscal year.
Looking back during John Thompson's ten years as CEO, Symantec grew annual revenue to $6 billion. We remain focused on our vision to
secure and manage the world's information. However, I have a slightly different approach to managing the $6 billion business that I have
inherited. I plan to use the scale that John built and focus our investments to increase internal innovation to improve quality and further
integration our solutions. We will extend our market leadership position in security, backup, and storage management. On the product
side, I am pleased with our leadership and performance in our storage management and consumer businesses.
For fiscal year 2010, I have established three key product focus areas for our team. First, responding to customer needs and enterprise
security; second, capitalizing on the migration to next generation data protection; and third, offering our products through the software
 
as a service model. In enterprise security, in addition to the Symantec Endpoint Protection Small Business Edition, which allows us to
better serve the midmarket, we are now shipping Symantec Protection Suite 3.0 in Small Business and Enterprise editions. The suite
creates an endpoint and messaging environment that are secure against today's most complex malware, data loss, and spam threats. It
is quickly recoverable in the event of a failure, thereby controlling costs and managing risk. Moreover, the suites are easy to deploy and
simple to use, saving customers time and costs associated with securing their IT environments.
The most recent Conficker virus provides a perfect illustration of the core Symantec vision -- the unification of security and management.
We can enable our customers to identify their systems that need to be patched, deliver the patches, update their SEP signatures, and
validate they are indeed secure using our compliance tools. Additionally, we can manage the frequency of backups to protect critical data
in times of high threat levels. We are the only vendor who can bring this complete offering to market.
Second, we will solidify our leadership in the data protection business as we transition and help our customers move to next generation
technologies which include disk-based backup, virtualization support, continuous data protection, and deduplication. We expect to sell
more of these next generation technologies as Net Backup 5.0 customers on maintenance continue to transition to Net Backup 6.5,
which enables more disk-based options. Additionally in February, we announced that backup and archiving will be combined under the
same management. Net Backup, Backup Exec, and Enterprise Vault are the clear market leaders in the enterprise and midmarket
backup, the archiving market segment, and the archiving market segments respectively. We will leverage our technology strength in
backup and archiving to simplify administration and reduce costs for our customers. Our Backup Exec product will have built in
deduplication and archiving options powered by the Enterprise Vault technology, which is expected to ship later this year.
Software as a service is our third product focus area. We acquired MessageLabs, the leader in SAS messaging security, in November
2008. Our integration is going smoothly and we plan to utilize our existing technology on the MessageLabs platform to create new SAS
and hybrid offerings to include archiving, DOP, backup, and many other services. Our goal is to offer customers the flexibility to manage
their business using online services, onsite software, or hybrid onsite and online solutions. This is especially attractive in the current
macro economic environment, as SAS is a delivery method that enables many companies to improve IT spend.
In closing, I believe we have the leading position in key markets and customers see the value of our product portfolio and the benefits of
our products and services. In addition to our focus areas, we will not lose sight of improving execution in the forms of maintaining our
leading market share, improving customer and partner loyalty, and becoming more operationally efficient.
And with that, I will turn the call back to Helyn to take your questions.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
I think, Sarah, when I look at that segment I would say there's a couple of things going on there. One, you mentioned midmarket and we
just shipped the new products on Monday which will help us there. I think the second area is we do have the currency headwind that
Helyn outlined in the beginning, but in the high end of the market, we continue to see the same close rates we had seen in previous
quarters. And I do believe that the demand for DLP, which is continuing to show double digit growth over the last five quarters, I expect
that to continue because that's a product that our customers will continue to say is very important to what they're doing even in this
tougher economic environment. But I would highlight the currency and midmarket as the two areas that I think have weighed on that
segment.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
When you think about the Stop Buying Storage marketing campaign, what's happening is customers are coming to us and saying they
absolutely are trying to manage their capital expenditures one of the best areas for them to target is the area of storage. So I think what
you can expect is customers try to take advantage of some of the concepts like intelligent archiving, thin provisioning, storage resource
management, and data deduplication, that will benefit the various lines -- because as you look at the functionality I just mentioned,
some of that is delivered by our net backup PureDisk capability, some of it's delivered by our Enterprise Vault product. So we see that the
Stop Buying Storage campaign will allow those products to continue to perform at their current levels given this tougher environment. So
I think that campaign is going to help us be able to continue to drive the performance we've seen in the last several quarters.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
So Adam, when you look at Norton 360, you are definitely continuing to see the mix shift toward  and it is -- we started out very
quickly with  moving up, but that has moderated a little bit because customers who are using Norton Internet Security are very happy
with that product. So while we continue to see the move toward 360, that mix rate has slowed down just a little bit. We do benefit from
the higher price point of  over NIS.
To your question of the PC unit shipment, I think what we are doing is we are continuing to add other capabilities. I highlighted today we
have now started shipping Norton Online Backup, so even with the slower number of PC units being shipped, I think we can maintain
where we are today and even can see a positive given that we are seeing the mix shift and the addition of the new offering.
My sense though is the other thing that is benefiting us right now in just talking to the consumer team is given the reception of the new
products, meaning Norton Internet Security with the very fast performance and great customer experience and now Norton  Version
 -- while we don't break out the renewal rates, we are seeing some improvement in renewals as a result of the great products we have
put into the marketplace. That's also helping us attract some of the new OEMs that I highlighted in the call because people are looking
for that improved customer experience.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
We are seeing continued strength in both NetBackup and storage management. What is great is given that data volumes continue to
grow, that's benefiting the NetBackup product line and we saw that perform very well through the entire fiscal year. When we look at
storage, the storage management side, given the Stop Buying Storage campaign, what we have actually seen is that product also
continues to be a part of what the customers are trying to do to improve storage utilization and basically help them get much better
return on the storage they have already purchased. So we do believe that both NetBackup and Storage Foundation or storage
management will continue to do well.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
We are not seeing any change in renewal rates, and one of the questions that Sarah asked at the beginning was around specifically is the
unemployment having an impact on our total units. So we are not seeing a change in renewal rates or that unemployment rates are
having an impact on business.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
I am in no real rush to start doing acquisitions. Part of the focus I've given the team is we have a tremendous engineering capability. I
want to drive internal innovation. Now, that doesn't mean that we will not do acquisitions. That's one of the advantages of having the
cash flow direction on the balance sheet that we do. But I am going to stay focused inside the markets that we are in, John. I mean we
clearly have a big position in security. I want to look at opportunities to strengthen our position there. I want to look for opportunities in
some of the next generation data protection. I want to look for opportunities in what we are doing around data categorization. So as I
look at the acquisition strategy, I am in no rush to go do a lot of acquisitions. There may be some small things that strengthen our
position in a few of those markets. Then longer term, I will look for what makes sense as far as continuing to drive growth into the
company. But right now we can afford to be patient.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
I would say that the focus areas are software as a service and not necessarily what historically utility computing -- which has morphed in
title. What we would do is we'd see some of our core Veritas products, Storage Foundation, our new clustering VCS1 technology as
helping build the infrastructure for utility computing, and then we see delivering on top of that infrastructure our software as a service
capabilities. And so from our perspective, the priorities in investment areas are security, next generation data protection, and software as
a service.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
I think when you look at linearity and we track close rates. We did some analysis on that, Daniel. What we are seeing is consistency in the
close rates, nothing new from a linearity perspective. In the enterprise business or large enterprise business it still tends to be be a good
percentage of the business comes in the last two weeks of the quarter. In our midmarket business that's fairly, is steadier throughout the
quarter. Our consumer business obviously both on a bookings and revenue recognition basis is fairly consistent across the entire quarter.
So we haven't seen, we didn't see any real changes in the March quarter, and we didn't see, we haven't seen anything so far in the June
quarter. It continues to be consistent along the percentages. We just finished the month of April and from the analysis James and I did
seems to be on track similar to what we have seen in previous Aprils.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
You are on track there, Rob, because what we saw was really a couple of things. Historically in our business, we have seen longer-term
deals. We have seen terms that are three year deals. We saw that become folks buying what they need for the current year or next 
months, not necessarily pre-buying for years two and three. That's one thing we saw. And I do think that when you look at the overall
business, I think given that we have now shipped the new midmarket product, I think that will definitely help because that has been an
area we have been successful with the large enterprise where we've gotten a number of competitive wins, but we have not the same
success in the midmarket. So the combination of shorter terms and we have continued to see without having the new Symantec Endpoint
Protection and the new suites, we haven't gotten the results reflected in the midmarket. I expect that to change now that we are in with
the new products.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
My expectation is we are ramping up our partners right now. Partners are starting to understand the capabilities of the product, the
simplicity of it. My sense is that units shipped on Monday of this week I would expect you will start seeing results from that capability --
probably in the September quarter will have a full quarter of having been in the channel. Because if we are putting it out at the beginning
of this week, you probably won't get it in the channel next several weeks.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
When I think about it, James commented earlier -- our long term goal is to drive  basis points of margin improvement and we still see
an opportunity to stay on track to do that. I think that this year as I look at the combination of some of the investments that we need to
make around the opportunities in consumer security and the enterprise SAS software to service and also our next generation data
protection as customers move from tape to disk-based backup, I think it is going to be important that we put some investments in those
areas. I do continue believe there are always opportunities for us to continue to manage our cost structure. So I think it will be a
combination of yes, we will move dollars to the areas I just mentioned, but also continue to look for opportunities to reduce costs in other
areas. I don't want to back off in any way from our long term goal of  basis points of margin improvement.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
The way with I look at it is, historically we have been shipping a suite, but I would call it a suite on malware protection. So we should ship
Endpoint Security, Mail Base -- the mail server security, the gateway security. What we are doing now is adding the other applications
that we have. So we've had market leading e-mail security for antispam protection. We acquired a small company called MI5 that adds
to our web security capability.
So what we are doing is in an effort to serve the midmarket and the SMB segment better, we believe that bringing these products
together in an integrated suite or extending the suites we had previously is the right way to go. So the suites are new from a capability
perspective, but we have been delivering a suite that was focused on one particular type of product line. From our perspective, it is going
interest something allows us just to go right back into our channel partners and go leverage our field organization just to have a new set
of capabilities that I think will have a positive impact on our security business. And I expect to start seeing that as I mentioned in the
September quarter.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
So let me take the second part first. Every relationship is structured differently. So it depends, Todd on what we are doing. So for example
some of our agreements are what I would call a replacement fee. We get everything into the future. Some deals are structured as rev
shares and they have [pay] post termination. So it really depends on the overall structure of the OEM agreement.
 
Now to your first question. We are absolutely -- if you saw what we just talked about, if you heard what we just talked about -- we won a
number of OEM deals in the last quarter. I mean working with the ThinkPad brand, working with some extensions with Dell around SMB
and their gaming platforms, and so we definitely see that the numbers of units in the OEM market that we are associated with is
definitely up. The other thing I commented on which I think is important -- we were already on the ASUS netbook and we are now on
both the Dell and HP minis. And so we feel that on an overall basis, the numbers of units shipping with our product is moving up right
now.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
When I look at the go to market side, one of the things that I am most pleased with right now is I have been spending time with our
channel partners. And what I see is there's a lot of enthusiasm for the new workflow technology that we shipped with our Altiris client
management and server management suites. What it is enabling our partners to do is create their own intellectual property that they can
take back into their customer base. The reason that is important for them is because they're really being [the V] in value to our customers
using the workflow technology. That I think is going to be meaningful because as you know, given our renewed push in security and the
efforts in the midmarket, partners are critical. So the effect of the suites and the workflow technology will bring a lot of partners or bring
a lot of enthusiasm from our partner community. That's the feedback I am getting right now.
From an overall go to market, we are continuing to push our leadership around security and next generation data protection. So you can
expect to see marketing pushing those campaigns, Stop Buying Storage campaign. We have also made some adjustments on the comp
plan, but overall it is pretty consistent year to year with a little more emphasis on security as we go into fiscal year 2010.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
What we are seeing with PC Tools is -- you have it exactly right. We are going after a couple of different target new markets. One is a
different segment, so a more price sensitive buyer, and two is emerging markets where quite frankly, they're looking for probably again
more price sensitive. We are pleased with the integration. That has been completed successfully. The leadership team -- we have got a
leader who is running that, somebody who has been a long time Symantec employee. And I am pleased with the progress we have made.
I expect to see that business continue to expand, because there's a number of segments that I believe are price sensitive we haven't yet
tapped into. So I believe at this point that we've started to see the initial possibilities of PC Tools, and I think the brand strategy is
absolutely going to serve us well, especially when we think about markets like Asia, the market in China. And so from my perspective,
that strategy is on track and I expect to see it performing better as we go into fiscal year 2010.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
Absolutely. So ASUS was the first one we shipped. We getting to the end of the trial period. So we are starting to get a little data. We are
comparing the data we get on the netbook or mini lines to the underlying adoption of the software, take rates on the software for the
non-netbook lines. We don't have enough data yet to give you a conclusive answer.
But what I have seen is that absolutely, prices in hardware have been dropping for the last ten years, and prices of our software have
increased over the last  years, or at least over the last couple of years where we have been able to move people to Norton 360. So that
clearly highlights the point that it is not the price of the hardware that matters, it is what you are doing. When I talk to a lot of the
manufacturers and they talk about the user scenarios, kids potentially using them to go online, people are very concerned about what
the online usage is going to look like, and I think Norton Internet Security and Norton  will absolutely continue to do well in that
lineup of netbooks and minis.
 
Enrique Salem Symantec - CEO & President
Thanks everyone for attending today's earnings call. I am excited about the opportunity to lead Symantec, and moving forward our focus
is on investments that will extend our leadership, improve the product quality, and integrate our solutions to help our customers secure
and manage their information. As we continue to focus, I want to make sure we improve execution and drive operational efficiencies as
many of you have commented. And I definitely look forward to spending time with you over the next couple of weeks and look forward to
seeing you at our analyst day in June. Thank you.
 
 