David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Thank you, Nahla, and let me add my welcome to everyone. Good morning. Welcome to our first-quarter 2010. While I am speaking to
you from Tokyo, joining me in Princeton and speaking on this call are John Ragan, Chief Operating Officer; Gerry Luterman and Chris
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Thank you, Chris and John. And particularly I want to thank you, Gerry, for pitching in for the last six months. We look forward to
continuing to work with you on the Board.
Now turning back to the presentation and nuclear development on slide 24, the current status of the STP  and  projects is really quite
simple. Everything depends on actions which will be taken in Washington sometime in the next several weeks. Almost two years after we
filed our application for a federal loan guarantee, and a full five years after such loan guarantees were authorized by the Energy Policy
Act of 2005, which is what triggered our development of STP  and 4, we are now in the absolute final stage of DOE consideration of our
loan guarantee application.
As the DOE process has been both very demanding and highly iterative, we are confident that we have done everything reasonably
requested of us to satisfy the government's concerns, which have been ably and forcefully expressed by the DOE staff and their
consultants on behalf of the American taxpayer, and have which been focused on ensuring the credit quality of the proposed loan
guarantee.
As such, and while we have no assurances at this time from the DOE or from any other branch of the US government that we will be
awarded a guarantee, we are and we remain confident in our position.
The issue that exists is one of appropriations and timing. While the Obama administration is seeking to expand the nuclear loan
guarantee program in the next budget cycle, the next budget cycle is months away, and right now they have two projects, our project and
Constellation's Calvert Cliffs project, which are at the same place in the process, and each asking for about $7 billion in loan guarantees,
when there is a little more than $10 billion currently appropriated and available.
Moreover, neither -- well, not NRG, and we don't believe Constellation based on statements they have made, are in a position to carry
their projects through to the next budget cycle at a cash burn rate that will keep their projects or our project on track.
We believe there is very strong bi-partisan support across a broad swath of the executive and legislative branches to make it possible for
the US government to support both projects without disruption. We believe our public policymakers in Washington recognize and
appreciate that much has been invested by Constellation and NRG in the massive greenhouse gas reducing infrastructure projects, and
that these projects represent a large number of present and future American jobs.
As the vanguard of the nuclear renaissance, the success of these projects is essential to the buildout of the domestic nuclear supply chain
that will be needed for the United States to be cost competitive in the burgeoning global market for nuclear power plants.
But as we all know, it can be a very long way in Washington from good intention to positive outcome. So we at NRG are prepared both for
a positive result and a negative result. Our plan for both outcomes is outlined in broad brush terms on slide 25.
If we get a full loan guarantee, we move forward to the next steps in a cash prudent manner. If we do not, we essentially suspend work on
the project and reduce the external cash burn to near zero, while we seek to mitigate our exposure to the project today.
Not withstanding our contingency plan for what we do if we don't win, you should walk away from this conference call knowing that we,
the management of NRG, are very confident that we will secure a federal loan guarantee. It is equally important for you to understand
that such a win would indeed be a big win for NRG shareholders and would not be a de facto loss, as some of you maybe previous to
today's announcement might have thought.
If we win we will pursue the project vigorously on all critical path items, but we nonetheless will significantly reduce our planned burn
rate on project engineering. Recognizing that we don't need to be as far along at the time our CLO is expected to be granted as we had
previously planned.
 
More over as depicted on slide 26, in part due to the buy in and participation of TEPCO, and as a result of various additional sources of
project funding, we expect to fund STP through the critical stages of  with a call on NRG's cash resources which is, while still
significant, very manageable relative to the size of the project opportunity.
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Well, yes, obviously it is a good question. It is a hypothetical question. I think if we do not get awarded the loan guarantee at this time
probably what we will do, and this is first addressing your characterization as a cold stop, is that we would -- and we would have to see
what the cost of this would be -- but we would probably shut down everything, except we might keep the license process going.
Our initial estimate is just to see the license through would cost less than $10 million a year. And given where we are, and the fact that
certainly one thing we would be doing would be trying to mitigate the amount we have spent through selling the intellectual property to
other people who might want to be pursuing that type project, we probably would try and carry through to get the license done, unless it
was too expensive.
Apart from that, if they came back a year from now when further money has been authorized and said, you can have your loan guarantee
now, and we basically wound down everything, we would have to work look at the circumstances at the time.
One thing is when you unwind an effort like this, as I say, it is hard to put Humpty Dumpty back together again. So I wouldn't be overly
confident that we could come back and resurrect the project a year from now.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
I think there is a lot of work being done. I think there are a lot of people in Washington, certainly people on our end and I would presume
on Constellation's end, that are suggesting various ways that this dilemma could be solved. And additional appropriations outside the
normal budget cycle is probably most prominent on that list.
The government does do appropriations outside of the budget cycle. And while the amount of money that we would be talking about, the
shortfall of the $14 billion needed, minus the $10 billion they have, $4 billion sounds like a very large number.
My understanding of the appropriations that they would actually have to put through the process, would actually just be essentially the
cost of the loan premium, which is a number that is less than $100 million. So that is definitely not insurmountable, but at this point I am
not in a position to preclude any of the variety of ways that people inside and outside the government have suggested for the government
to resolve this conundrum. We would be happy with any of the ones that work.
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Well, I'm not sure. I think that the number that TEPCO has paid -- and it is quite comparable to the number that Toshiba paid a couple of
years ago. I have seen attempts to analyze it against what CPS, or what we have -- what do you mean by what we propose to pay CPS?
The $80 million that we would pay if we get the loan guarantee?
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
It is very hard to do this without going through a spreadsheet. We would be happy to make a best effort at doing that. Because one of the
problems with development is that the money being invested at this stage is either very valuable or it is really worth nothing. It is fairly
binary.
What I would tell you is on its face us paying $80 million to CPS for their 40% something interest that we are getting from them,
obviously TEPCO paying $280 million to get 18% of the project, one looks much better than the other. But it is really hard to compare
them. As you say, then you have this sort of present value, what the carried interest that CPS would have starting in 2017. So we will try
and put something like that together, but it is very much an apple and orange comparison.
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
I think it is a very, very good question. I would say that I think the chance of the DOE, and I could be wrong about this, because again, it is
the government and I'm not necessarily an expert. But certainly we have never gotten any indication from the DOE that they would do
that. Because if you think about the government's position, the people at the DOE and in the government generally have worked as hard
on this over the last couple of years as we have.
I think that the last thing the government wants to do is announce two partial awards, two $5 billion awards for two companies that were
seeking $7 billion. And then have both companies respond the next day by essentially suspending their project.
Because while $5 billion sounds like a lot -- a large number, if you think of the delta between the $5 billion and the $7 billion plus, that is
an enormous amount of equity to raise. Again, we cannot speak for Constellation, even though I have tried to do that several times
during this call. But on behalf of NRG's and [Enos'] perspective, we have run the numbers and we have conveyed to the government that
we cannot go forward with half of the existing money.
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Mauricio, do you want to take -- you want to answer that question?
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
Mauricio?
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
I am glad that you asked that question. And as you could tell from my -- the way that I expressed it, I take TEPCO's investment to be the
full amount, which is essentially paid in two stages. There are no conditions precedent attached to the second piece -- the second
tranche.
But obviously, as you saw the way it was structured, they are paying $30 million as part of the first payment in order to have that option.
So certainly legally, contractually, they have a right to stick at the original amount. But That certainly I have no expectation that if the
project is proceeding, they will do that, that they will come forward with a second portion, because their comfort zone in terms of the size
of the project they wanted was in the 20% range.
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
I will turn that one to Chris, but I would -- I would say I don't think we have ever made a firm commitment to actually at any price get the
RP basket issue resolved. But you're right, just to make sure that semantically we are on the same page there, we certainly said we would
undertake to give it the old college try to do it at a reasonable price, if we could do it at a reasonable price. But, Chris.
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
The easy answer -- I will take the easy answer and then ask Jason to do -- actually, they are both pretty easy. But he will be the first one.
The second one is the answer is, yes that the gain on sale Padoma is in the adjusted EBITDA. Jason, do you want to talk about the impact
of weather?
 
David Crane NRG Energy, Inc. - President, CEO
I think that, as you say, we are done. We appreciate everyone taking the time this morning. And we look forward to speaking with you
again next quarter. Thank you very much.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Thank you, Nahla, and good morning, everyone. I want to provide -- add my personal welcome to the second quarter call, and I want to
apologize and thank you for accommodating our date shift from tomorrow to today. Since it was done on my schedule, I hope that by
getting you to listen to us on a Monday morning we've brought you some good news earlier in the week than we otherwise would have.
 
In short, I can assure you as shareholders of NRG that, while there's a lot that I'm very proud of as the CEO of your company, neither I nor
the rest of the team that NRG will take our eye off the ball in terms of delivering another exceptional financial result in 2010, perfecting
our classic competitive generation retail model and positioning the Company to be a leader in the transformation to a new energy
economy.
Turning to John Ragan?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Thank you, Chris. I think we're prepared to take any questions that callers may have.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, Dan, I could take the air out of the ball for the remaining  minutes of this call in terms of answering that question, but I'll try and
give you the short form.
I think the way that we've gone around planning South Texas and the new reality is around this fact that we just literally have no idea
when the US government will do the two things -- the Department of Energy actually finish the loan guarantee process, hopefully in a
positive fashion, and the money be appropriated. It's really the second part that's more uncertain. We are really at the final stages with
the DOE, with negotiations of the loan agreement complete.
But as to when the money would be there for an award, to be frank, as I'm told, it could be today or, worst case scenario, if it gets to be
part of the  budget appropriations and that takes the track that it's taken in recent years, it could be as far away as next February or
March. So that's really the timing horizon that we've looked at in all of those critical decisions. And we expect to have all the four things I
 
talked about resolved within that time period, so the US government financing, the Japanese government financing, the EPC and the
off-take.
In terms of further sell-downs, Dan, I would say that's the one thing that's really changed in this because our motivation to sell down
early in the project was actually to reduce the amount that we were spending every month. Left to our own devices, if we weren't
spending as much as we were spending, we would prefer to sell down later rather than earlier because the project gets more valuable as
it gets towards closing. So, since our spend rate has been cut by 95%, I think the one other significant change in terms of the things that
you mentioned is that you probably shouldn't expect additional sell-downs unless they are for highly strategic reasons until we get these
other four main critical path items resolved.
That's the best short answer I can give. Did you want to follow up on some aspect of that?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
You are saying, if the project would actually be canceled, would there be exposure beyond the cash that we already have sunk in the
project?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
I think, in terms of -- first of all, there are not a lot of hidden commitments. If the partners -- and one thing I want to emphasize here, and
I apologize to all our shareholders because I may not have spoken as accurately as I should have about the way this works. When we talk
about like shutting down the project, this project, like every other jointly developed project I've ever been in, in my life -- one party does
not have the right to shut down the project. One party only has the right to reduce or stop their spend in the project. The other party
always has the right to unilaterally go forward.
So when I talk about our decision making in terms of actually shutting down the project, let's assume we have a joint decision of Toshiba
and NRG to shut down the project. I think our overall sense is that, while it would take a few months of wind-down spend and money
spent on demobilization and the like, there are not like enormous commitments that have not been disclosed before. I think the overall
commitment of the Company would be in the $500 million range, which is -- but that $500 million includes the money that Toshiba has
put to date, so that's more of an earnings number. You would have to deduct the $150 million from Toshiba to get the cash exposure of
NRG.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
If you are saying, as part of this arrangement with Toshiba that there would be some sort of reimbursement agreement that the --
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
-- if it goes forward? The answer to that question is no. There's no reimbursement agreement. We tried to depict on page nine -- and,
Lasan, this is a work in progress. But in terms of funding the work -- again, I wouldn't say that -- just make sure that we are 100%
accurate with the words. I'm not sure Toshiba is accelerating the payment. They're just bearing more of the ongoing costs. The spend rate
of the project is being reduced from about $30 million a month to about $20 million a month. In terms of the part of that, the very
significant part of that that NRG is not going to be funding, what we are showing on the right-hand side of page nine is the various
alternatives that Toshiba has to bear that cost. And it could be vendor financing or there's the TANE credit facility. Toshiba also has the
option of doing it through equity in NINA, in which case there would be some dilution of NRG. But there's no reimbursement agreement
we've entered into to cause us to have to make up the cost that Toshiba is bearing in these months going forward.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, we could, but -- that's possible, but what I would tell you is we are announcing today that we've cut spending on the project by
95%. That is -- from a point of view of removing the burden from the shoulders of NRG shareholders, I would say that that's a very
significant step. If we decided and Toshiba agreed that the project really made no sense to go forward, would we cut from $1.5 million a
month to zero? I don't think we would do that immediately because there's significant value in the project. First of all, we would probably
keep the license going to conclusion, given how far we've come. And between some long lead time items that we've ordered, the
intellectual property involved in the application process, the design, the Americanization of the Japanese ABWR design -- we are talking
about a set of development assets that have significant value, and we would certainly not just throw those into the ocean. I think we
would keep a team going to see if we could monetize that value.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, I may ask Jason to answer the second question. Let me just say on the first question, I think, if I'm getting your question right,
clearly we've upgraded the expectations of Reliant for all of 2010. We haven't changed what we've considered, what we've said before is
like a mid-cycle run rate of $300 million. I think the question out there is that, how much money can Reliant make on a steady state
business during a prolonged trough in the market? I think that's what we are gearing our strategy for.
Clearly, if we believe that Reliant is going to make in the range of $600 million this year, it's not going to revert to $300 million going
from December  to January 1,  to 2011. So we don't have a perfect insight into this crystal ball, but I would say that, clearly, we are
impressed with the resilience of Reliant's ability to out-earn this mid-cycle return during a prolonged trough, and we're doing everything
in our power to extend that, as long as possible.
As to the cost structure, Jason?
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, Jay, it's a good question, and you surmised correctly when you say that we plan on focusing on it a bit more over the next several
months. I think one way to look at it simplistically is that, really, the STP development project has three work streams. The one which I
think when people started we would talk the most about, which was the regulatory approval workstream at the NRC. We don't ever talk
about that anymore because it's working perfectly, it's right on track.
It's the other two work streams. One is how to get money for the project and then, of course, the commercial arrangement. And there's
been a lot of focus on the getting money work stream because of the DOE loan guarantee process. But the third work stream is the
offtake. The offtake -- the uncertainty that has caused us to not push so hard on the offtake thus far is not really related to the money, it's
more related to the fact that you have to have a solid EPC price in order to talk to offtakers about the power and what it's going to cost.
And we are getting much closer to a conclusion there in terms of getting a final EPC price that we then can work and do something more
 
specific to take to the offtakers.
And so we expect in the second half of this year, maybe spilling into the first quarter, to be looking for binding commitments from the
several people that we've been talking to about long-term offtake for the project.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, it's multiple units, John. I think a couple came on in June.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, Michael, first, if you were just thumbing through the K, I've just got to say, with due respect, and I love you as the brother I never
had, you know, get a life. You've got to have better things to do with it. But on the coal, John, do you want to -- ?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Again, right now we are doing the engineering work to determine what we need to do. But again, until we get a better sense of the macro
around asset gases, it's a little more difficult to determine exactly what we will do there. If, as we expect EPA to be pragmatic around
how they go about facilitating the reductions, again, we don't see the worst-case scenario where we have to control unit by unit. So until
we have a better sense of that, it's a little hard to say how the CapEx will be spent in Texas.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, I think there are a few things going on. First of all, I think that you -- first of all, we are sensitive to the fact that the co-ops, like
everyone who serves load, are very price sensitive. And it's one thing to say that we have the right to charge it through. And, at least for
the customers whose contracts expire in 2014, they obviously have the right to not renew.
But I think when people have looked at this issue with South Central, they've exaggerated the ease with which a customer to Louisiana
generating could switch because it's a constrained transmission system down there. Our plants have the transmission rights to serve
these customers who, as you know, are spread all over Louisiana.
So it may not be as straight -- look, I can get a price, 2% lower from someone else that you are suggesting. It's a more complicated
assessment.
Having said that, like I said, we want to work with the co-ops to smooth out the path and get the right outcome for them and their
customers. Mauricio, did you have anything to add on that?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, the TEPCO investment is conditioned upon receipt of the DOE loan guarantee, so it hasn't happened yet. Having said that, TEPCO
has been a technical advisor to the project from the beginning. And since they fully expect the DOE loan guarantee to come through --
we are working with them, but the trigger for the injection of the first funds from TEPCO has not occurred and will not occur until the
DOE loan guarantee is received.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, no. When you say Japanese financing, to me you're talking about the Japanese government co-financing on the debt side, which
TEPCO is working with us to get those funds or those guarantees from the Japanese government. No; I'm talking about the TEPCO equity
investment, which is not related to Japanese financing. It's actually related to DOE financing. Once the DOE award is granted and
accepted by us, then that will trigger their injection of capital into the I think  -- that would be the trigger for them to inject $155
million into the project.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, but your question was on the wholesale side. I think we split out the extent to which it was Reliant and the guidance on slide 22.
But, yes, but on the wholesale side, it was both Texas and the Northeast.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, thank you very much, and operator, thank you for your assistance. Again, thank everyone for tuning in on Monday and for your
interest in NRG.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Good morning everyone. Let me start by introducing my colleagues here participating in this presentation. I am joined by Mauricio
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Thank you, Chris. Before we open the line for questions, let me just make three quick points for you to keep in mind. The first is, I think
that we are demonstrating, as I said, even three years into the commodity price downcycle we are showing that even in these
circumstances the Company is demonstrating substantial free cash flow generation.
Secondly, we do have investment opportunities led by solar, which are very attractive in absolute terms and from a risk perspective, and
also are much shorter in terms of how soon they contribute to EBITDA because of the shorter construction cycle.
Finally, to follow on Chris' last point, we do have substantial liquidity to deploy. And I think our track record over the last six years has
indicated our ability to allocate and deploy capital in a manner that enhances the value of the Company over the medium to long term.
So we hope and expect to continue to do that for the benefit of NRG shareholders.
So with that, so Lamera we would be happy to take any questions that you have on the line.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
I can't actually answer the first question. I mean, our process with the DOE has gone on in accordance with the schedule we have had
with them. If it has affected the way the government looks at these loan guarantees internally, we are just not in a position to -- I don't
know. I don't know. It is like the old iceberg, we don't see what happens beneath the surface.
 
So we have not picked up any sort of like meaningful visible, tangible change in the way the government's approach to us as a result of
the Constellation Calvert Cliffs situation. If you have another question on that, I don't like to not be able to answer a question.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, right now the arrangement with Toshiba is that they have been -- their capital contributions have been put into the project through
credit facilities to NINA. But we will probably be able to give you more final details on that on the next quarterly call.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
It is -- I would say that half of that is from projects that have been either in the ground or announced, and the rest are ones that we would
expect to announce very soon to qualify for the cash grant.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Okay, well, first of all, the significant upside in '12, we could not -- first of all, I think that what I said was that we are bouncing along the
bottom of the trough. I am not sure that I predicted a full recovery in the year 2012, but maybe I got a little hung up on that.
Why did we not go after the full company of Dynegy, I would say that we didn't feel that with the exposure that the company had in terms
of their coal assets -- and I think you would know from the SEC filings that Dynegy is listed in terms of the description of the discussions
that occurred was that we made it very clear from the beginning that we were not interested in owning the Midwest coal assets.
That was really a factor -- two factors that caused us to feel that way. One, as you yourself mentioned, we have a significant amount of
that in own portfolio already. The second thing, and we have been consistent about this ever since the response to the Exelon situation,
as we consider the Midwest -- in my seven years in this Company we have never been attracted to the Midwest as a place where we really
wanted to be very active.
I would say that lack of interest in the Midwest has gotten greater over those years, because we find the prospects for demand growth in
the Midwest -- in the Midwest of the country are more challenging than on the coast. And we also think that the Midwest market, being
coal on coal competition for the most part, that is not very attractive to begin with, but also we think it is subject to risks from a buildout
of wind capacity coming out of the Dakotas. So that just wasn't our cup of tea. And obviously that is a big part of the overall value of
Dynegy.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Yes, let me ask Chris Moser to answer that question. And on your previous comments feel free to call me if you want to discuss.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
We will get you something on that too.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Thanks for your two questions. I am going to ask Chris to answer the second question, but I'm going to throw my body in front of him on
the first question.
With where the Dynegy transaction is right now, in terms of the shareholder vote coming up, we would rather not talk at all about what
we see as the earnings power of Dynegy next year or the year after or anything like that. We would give you more information about that
probably the next time we talk, assuming the next time we talk is after November  or whatever the day is. But we would really not get
into that right now.
But, Chris, on the Reliant question.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Could you be more -- I mean more specific.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, I can only comment -- I think what I'm going to tell you is something that if you avidly followed the trade press you know would
have already seen in the press, so I am not sure it is going to be that illuminating.
But if the Dynegy transaction was defeated, A., obviously we would have no idea why it was defeated or what the plan of Dynegy would
be going forward, and whether the assets that we had contracted to sell would be available for sale from someone else.
If someone offered those assets to us, and we were free of our obligation -- when we were free from our obligation to Blackstone to
consider, we obviously would consider it. And to me it is a blinding glimpse of the obvious, but given the change in the gas curve since
August, we would be offering a lower price. I'm not going to talk about how much of a lower price.
But there is another factor is that we would have to be certain that whoever we were buying the assets from, the transaction was
structured in a way that it was bankruptcy remote. That we were not subject to a potential unwinding of the transaction due to fraudulent
conveyance.
So that would be an obstacle -- a potential obstacle as well. So that -- the potential permutations of what might happen are so great
that is about all I can tell you right now.
On the alternative uses of the liquidity, I would just repeat what we said. We have a lot of investment opportunities. The Dynegy assets
were particularly attractive to us, but they are not the only combined cycle power plants in the United States that are on the market
today. And I previously stated in many meetings that I actually thought that the absolute best time to be buying combined cycle power
plants was probably to be in the first part of 2012.
Then, of course, there is the possibility of redeploying the capital in terms of return of capital to the stakeholders. Obviously, there is a
possible per share buyback. But as we did borrow money in August in order to finance the Dynegy transaction, there is also the possibility
of paying down some debt. So, Chris, did you want to --?
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Jason Few is going to answer your question.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, you hit two. To me there is those two. There is the fact that we tend to be a little bit cautious in everything we do, so there could be
a little bit of cushion built-in.
There is the fact that one thing we have never understood about the way the outside world looks at this industry, it is not like we as a
management team are sitting on our hands just sort of clipping coupons. We are a pretty active Company in terms of reshaping the
portfolio and improving upon it.
So there is the fact that we as a management team may actually do things to improve it, which, of course, we like to improve our own
value-add. Chris, what else from your perspective?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, I think that their growth -- in the last four or five years they have averaged a compound annual growth in the 20% to 25% range.
So, again, being cautious people, as we project forward we don't reject that type of increase, because, again, we are cautious people. But
they have demonstrated that over each of the last four or five years. And certainly we think that, as I mentioned in my comments, that
Green Mountain under us can penetrate into markets that they haven't been.
They have been moving outside of Texas. Their principal area of expansion to date has been in New York City. And we want to do things
in a methodical way, but certainly we think there are other markets in the Northeast that they can move into.
But I think the most obvious thing is that as a small company in the C&I business, Green Mountain has focused on very, very small
 
commercial customers. Our sense, and I think there are a lot of anecdotes and data points on this -- I will spare you my Philadelphia
cream cheese example -- but it seems that a growing number of businesses in the United States that are facing the American consumer
are seeing the benefit of sending a green energy message.
We thank that is a trend that is going to accelerate, and we expect Green Mountain to be a big part of that trend. So we think there are
multiple avenues for growth with Green Mountain. And really the most challenging one is which ones are we going to prioritize and focus
on so we don't spread too thin.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, to me there is -- we have that one slide in the presentation, slide six, that talks about five exits. But really to me it comes down to
basically two interconnected exits. One is the loan guarantee, the other is the PPA obligation. And they are tied together, because the
PPA obligation is a condition of the loan guarantee.
What I can say is it is always hard to predict the development business. And we could get subject to a complete impasse if Washington
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Well, the RP basket is the main pacing item, and so apart from that, I wouldn't expect any huge change in the Company's policy to date.
But, Chris, do you have --?
 
David Crane NRG Energy - President and CEO
Thank you. Well, Lamera, thank you very much, and thank you all. I know there are other earnings calls that are actually already going
on, so we appreciate you taking time to listen to the NRG story. Thank you very much.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Thank you, Nahla. And good morning everyone and welcome to our year-end  earnings call. Today with me and participating in the
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Thank you Chris and thank you Mauricio. So in conclusion, on slide  we put what we think are some of the value drivers around the
investment proposition at NRG. It starts with the fact that 2.5 years into the commodity price downcycle, it appears to us that the end is
in sight. The bottom of the trough has been reached and the only way to go is up.
When and how quickly gas prices will recover remains open to conjecture. But the case for rising heat rates in our core market of Texas is
clear and compelling. And we have positioned our portfolio and our hedge book to benefit from that upturn.
Second, even in a political environment that has turned more conservative in the past year, market mandates for renewable generation --
and for solar power in particular -- remain well supported in both red and blue states. And the result for us has been a fast-growing
portfolio project that will contribute substantially to shareholder value creation over the short to medium term.
Finally, there's the inherent value unique amongst our peer group of wholesale generation combined with a leading retail position. While
we've executed to such great success in Texas together with Reliant, we're now in a position to replicate with Green Mountain in the
fast-growing green and retail energy sector.
It is a bright future indeed. And for all of us at NRG, we will strive to realize its (inaudible) on behalf of the shareholders of NRG. So,
Deanna with that, we would be happy to take some questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
I think what we're showing, Chris, correct me if I'm wrong, the Tier  -- which are projects which, my personal estimation, are ones that
have 90%-plus chance of achieving financial closure.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
I'm sorry, Dan. Say again.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
(inaudible) Well, there are more projects behind this portfolio. I'm sorry.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
We're going to get down to how much we can sell down as we move through the process. But very clearly any the amount we sell down
will sort of be a pro-rata reduction in EBITDA. So depending on how much we do, we will certainly let you know.
But we do believe that the sell down will allow us to provide incremental more equity into other projects we have yet to announce. But
which, as David said, are on the bubble given the benefits that -- from the government largess, which we think still exists but perhaps
will run out in the next couple of years.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
And those projects will also be assumed to have returns consistent with what we have seen to date.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Well, the -- so you're saying your (multiple speakers) you are actually looking forward to  and 2017? The -- yes, looking at page 10,
through the first few years when we talk about receiving $500 million of cash, that is based on our view on where gas prices go. Which is
obviously some way up from where they are now, sort of in the $6 to $7 range.
Having said that, Dan, we have stressed the returns on a nuclear project from an IRR perspective sort of for $4.00 a gas perpetuity
model. And the IRR on the project would still be in double digits. But obviously the higher gas prices, the better it would do. But it works,
the numbers work even in a $4.00 gas environment.
The reason that is the case is because obviously the tax benefits associated with the nuclear project, particularly the production tax
credits, mean that through the first several years the nuclear project the economics are more driven actually by the tax benefits than they
are by the price of electricity.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
In a $4.00 gas the plant is -- yes. Again, it's a low teen return. I'm not sure that you -- it is not the return we're seeking. But it's not a
single digit return or a negative return. So --
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Yes, so the returns would be in the teens area in a $4.00 in perpetuity model. Again, this is based on the idea that we're running a model
where there is roughly  MW of power sold by long-term contract and the rest is taken into the merchant market. So the $4.00 gas
would apply to the [2000] in the merchant market.
 
And yes, you're right. What it shows is a return in the teens in that sensitivity. I would also tell you, both in response to your question and I
should have said to Dan. Also, we run this with no value associated to the zero carbon aspect of it. So a price on carbon directly or
indirectly would be on top of this.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Well, almost as a -- from the beginning I think that we have said to our investors that we, at least, would not proceed with the project
unless there was a significant amount of long-term offtake associated with the project. And so roughly  MW has been something
we've talked about from the beginning.
On top of that, the conditional loan guarantee, if and when it is announced, it's called a conditional loan guarantee because there are
conditions associated with it. And probably the most substantive condition -- the condition we would be focused on -- is that the
government would require us to have approximately that same amount of long-term offtake agreement contracted. Which was a
condition, again, that we were happy to agree with the government on since we had said that we wouldn't go forward with it either. So,
that is why we would be doing that.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Sure. And as we've said we're committing to a $180 million stock repurchase. And that is what is in the confines of our restricted payment
basket. We're also going to be making required debt repayments under our term loan program, term loan B program.
We've also earmarked a substantial investment in our solar projects. These are projects which we had -- some of which were announced
late last year and early this year and would be subject to the cash grant program as under the government. So all of those projects, and
repowering projects from El Segundo and GenConn Middletown.
But those are the programs, at least, that are part of the capital allocation program for this year. That is what we have announced.
We've also -- we have $1.8 billion after which we would be able to deploy into additional repowering should they be available, and new
solar projects that we see on the horizon. As I said before, all of which offer us the opportunity for very attractive returns.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
And just to add, Ted, I think you phrased the question almost as if it was an either/or, and I guess that maybe a little bit different. Given
that Company's free cash flow generation and the cash we have on hand, we haven't really seen it as either/or. In terms of returning
capital to shareholders through the share buyback, we do as much as we can under the restricted payment basket.
 
Over the past few years we have constantly evaluated whether or not we could negotiate a way to have more room to do more, but the
expense of doing that has always made that impractical. So, from our perspective, it has not been an either/or decision. It's been -- do
both.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
I think the place would like to build up the portfolio -- and again we've been fairly -- well, it took us six years to execute on the idea that
we needed a low following plant in South Central. So just because I say this, I don't want to think any sort of announcement is around the
corner because I'm actually skeptical that we can achieve anything.
But we would definitely like to have some more base to load following capability in PJM, particularly eastern PJM. Having said that, we
don't have any optimism about anything coming available in that footprint that we would find probably at a reasonable price. But we
keep our ear to the ground.
I would say that has been our [single] greatest priority, second to backing up Big Cajun, which we have now achieved with Cotton.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
(multiple speakers)
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
I don't believe there's a drop dead date. And, John, Tokyo Electric well understands the pace of development. I think their enthusiasm for
-- I don't want to speak for them, but I think their enthusiasm for participating in this project is unchanged from when we announced the
deal a year ago.
So, I don't remember any [sense of] date. But I have a very high level of confidence that if the loan guarantee comes that Tokyo Electric
will participate in the project.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
I think the condition is very specific. And I think back, it's the same as I answered to Ameet. It's something just less than  MW.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
It's a good question. I think what I would say without -- I mean it's difficult to comment with discussions that are under way. In fact,
normally we don't comment on it. But since, as you said, there's been discussions by the public, I guess I should say some things.
I would say first of all I think there's an openness, a willingness and interest on several load serving entities, large load serving entities in
the Texas market to talk about long-term offtake. I would also say that the events of early February in Texas, where part of the reason the
state had brownouts or even blackouts is because people couldn't get gas to some power plants. I think it has reinforced the idea that
having fuel diversity in the state is something that load serving entities want to have.
So there is a fairly high level of interest from various parties. But the big qualifier I always put on this question is, right now it is as you
 
say; it is really a discussion. The project isn't really real to offtakers until we have a loan guarantee. So I would describe anything that
we're doing with any counterparty at this point as being preliminary.
And so that is what I would tell you. And based on what we're being told by the counterparties and their interest level, I'm guardedly
optimistic. But mainly, my main attitude towards all of this is -- let's wait and see what happens when the loan guarantee is announced,
because that's when our sales and our counterparties are going to have to get down to business. And people are going to have to make
commitments on both sides. So that is the main thing.
And what we're trying to emphasize here is that that phase, and hopefully that phase will begin within the coming weeks, is something
that basically needs to be resolved by the summer so that we can all have clarity. Us within the Company, you as investors and analysts
as to where we stand vis-a-vis this project.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Yes, very much so. I think equity stake that we're contemplating is tax equity. It's a structuring issue. But we are certainly looking to pass
off the tax attributes that are generated from this portfolio to tax equity investors.
I think one thing, as a follow-up to a question before, is that we will certainly be looking to sell this equity at a premium. The returns we
are seeing perhaps from these investors are below the expected returns that we have seen in the high teens. So that sort of premium or
IRR arbitrage game will certainly benefit us in having a development premium for this.
So -- but our goal here both is to bring equity into these projects and also to lay off some of the tax that perhaps does not necessarily
accrue to NRG.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Well, what I would say on a few fronts. It sort it depends on which exit ramp you're talking about. And I'm just speculating on things
which of course we don't hope to happen.
From my perspective, I think if something happens during this year that caused the entire project to go away, we would probably finish
the licensing process -- which is a small fraction of the overall development spend. But we are so far along with the NRC that to stop it
this close to the end would not make sense.
But beyond that, would the project go forward? I think it depends on which exit ramp it is. Again, I don't mean to speak for the other
partners because I want to emphasize to every NRG investor on the call, we do not have a right to kill the STP  and  project. We just
have the right to stop our own financial contribution to it.
But I would say if the exit ramp is that -- actually it turns out that there is no loan guarantee in the offing, I haven't actually asked this
question directly. But I think our partners in Japan and we would be aligned that there would be -- that the project would stop if there is
no hope of a federal loan guarantee.
If, on the other hand, there was a federal loan guarantee but there was -- we were taking the exit ramp because we were unable to line
up the offtake, I don't know what our partners would do in that circumstance. Maybe they would continue with the project. That would be
their prerogative to do.
I just know that if we don't have that offtake arrangement, then we will stop funding.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
It is. But one of the reasons why I don't know -- I don't remember the exact terms, the exact words of the conditional loan guarantee. But
I know that we do not have the opportunity at NRG to solve for the offtake arrangement, because I think the condition is offtake
agreements with investment grade offtakers.
Our Japanese partners who are investment grade would have that opportunity, should they so choose, to correct that on their own. We
don't have that type of power. So that is not a question for us.
 
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
The range -- well, I think we would say the range right now is [3500 to 4000] per KW. And I don't know that would be for the PV -- I can't
tell you -- the solar thermal would probably be in the same range.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Well, we haven't compared them side-by-side. But I think it is fair to say that like nuclear, the solar projects -- at this point the economics
are very heavily driven by the tax benefits. But beyond that, the real difference between the two is that every solar project we're doing is
completely not merchant. It's totally PPA.
So I don't think -- in fact, when we talk about taking the Company's financial performance and sort of de-linking it to natural gas prices,
we put renewables together with retail in parts of our EBITDA stream that are not associated with natural gas prices, because of the fact
that all of the economics are derived from long-term PPAs.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
So, operator, I think you said there was one more call.
 
David Crane NRG Energy - CEO
Okay, well, good. Thank you all very much and we look forward to talking to you in the next quarter. Thank you operator.
 