Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thanks, Terrence. Just wrapping it up here. The fourth quarter was -- the first quarter was our fourth consecutive quarter of operating
margins of 14%, in the $12 billion to $12.5 billion annualized range, of course excluding ADC. And it was a quarter with solid revenue in
growth in most of the industries and in all regions. And it was a quarter in which, if you go back a year ago when we started -- when we
were beginning to close the gap on our original goal of 12% at $12 billion, that was based around a $3 copper price. So, the team has
done a great job of being able to deliver 14% at $12 billion and overcome about a 25% increase in metals overall.
The market demand for the year is a little stronger than we saw it last quarter. As Terrence mentioned, due primarily to the strength in
automotive. But we do expect virtually all of our businesses, with the exception of SubCom, to show solid year-on-year revenue growth
across the balance of this year. And there is very good momentum in automotive and in our network infrastructure businesses. And this
does assume -- this outlook does assume that consumer and DataComm begin to grow a little bit in the second half of this year. The ADC
integration, while still in the early stages, is progressing very well. And we'll start to see a little bit of earnings accretion in Q2, and then
the level picks up by Q3.
And as we mentioned, the biggest challenge right now is the price of metals, but our view is with a combination of productivity, more
aggressive pricing that's already underway, and the volume growth we expect in the second half, we'll overcome most of that and deliver
this $3.05 to $3.20 EPS. So all in all, a good start to what we believe is going to be a good year. So let's open it up for questions now.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Sure, thanks, Amitabh. Remember, ADC is only -- that $1 billion is only nine and a half months. So we only had $50 million in Q1. So, if
you just took that run rate, it's close to $1.2 billion, what its run rate has been. Although, like our Telecom business, we see some
momentum there.
In terms of the step-up in earnings, a couple of things there. The networks business is in -- as much as there is momentum in it now, it's
still in the winter. And so, both energy and Telecom infrastructure we expect first half, second half, will be up nicely due to market
momentum, our position, and better weather. The normal seasonality. So that's part of it.
 
And our consumer businesses that are muddling along a little bit right now, I'd say, not including automotive, we do expect as we get
through the inventory adjustment that that's going to pick up a little bit. And then, don't forget, there's an extra week in the second half
of the year. So, there is definitely first half, second half growth. I'd peg that to general economic growth, and a little bit of momentum on
our side. But that's how we get there.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Sure. On NBN, I'd say the two pieces of NBN are -- there's no question that the combo of TE and ADC, if you go back a year ago and we
looked at where we thought we would come out on NBN, when you risk-assessed it, the combination strengthens our position. The one
thing it did do, is it slowed down the process for us a little bit, because the customer really didn't want to end their end of the detail
negotiations with two companies and then have to harmonize that all. So we got started a little later. We fully expect -- I mean, would be
very disappointed if it didn't come out this way and surprised, to get a nice hunk of business out of that. And so, I would say stay tuned
over the next couple of months on that.
In general, the pipeline that we mentioned, Spain, Brazil, a couple of other areas, we are seeing a nice pick-up where there has been very
little fiber. We are not at liberty to talk about it yet, but we have been selected as the initial supplier on one of those. And those are
typically $100 million-type businesses over three or four years to start. It's hard to call the whole -- if they do everything they say they are
going to do, they are going to be very big. But you know how this business -- it kind of goes in fits and starts. But there is a lot more
activity now than there was a year ago.
And just as importantly, in the existing networks where fiber has been rolled out over the last five or six years, to go back -- there was a
nice cycle back five or six years ago, then the last three years in western Europe and the US there has been a lull in that cycle. And for
sure in western Europe, we're seeing that pick up. And that's our strong suit. So we feel good about that pipeline right now. And you can
see it in our revenue in the Telecom networks business the last two quarters. The significant growth in the revenue. So there feels like
there is nice steam in the engine.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
You're welcome.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Sure. If you break up Europe into a couple of pieces, a big part of Germany, roughly half of their automotive production is export. And US
and China are the two largest markets for their export. So I would say, most of the strength we saw in the second half year last year and
the first quarter was largely export-related. Although, new car registrations are up for the first time in a while in Germany. And you see
the outlook for the German economy is pretty positive right now.
China, the market grew about 50% last year in production. We grew about 70%. We don't expect that kind of growth this year, and our
outlook would expect a market growth in the neighborhood of 10%. And we would expect to grow well in excess of that, because we are
very well-positioned there. So, still a nice growth coming off a huge growth in China. But it's getting to be such a big market, that you are
not going to probably see 40% or 50% unit growth there.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Yes, and then I would say that just -- add on to that, that selective price increases in the last six months, which often shows up in less
price erosion than normal, but going forward more aggressive price increases, but that's always tough. I mean, that's really a
customer-by-customer basis in the customers where you are selling to the tier ones or the OEMs. It's not generally a broad-based
increase, whereas through the channel and into the smaller customers you can do that a little more. So, I would say the discussions are
always difficult.
And even though supply is a little bit better than where it was, the good news is that customers are still generally pushing to make sure
we can supply. So it's never easy. But our view is, we have to get a little more than we have in the past, when you break through $4 in
copper and you are at $1,300 an ounce for gold.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
I think inventory definitely started to balance out. We can see it in the sell-in and sell-out numbers, which we have a pretty good handle
on. I don't think that build last -- that gradually happened in the last two quarters is really around pricing. I think it was more around the
supply chain of the last year. Everybody was trying to cover themselves. And so, you have a little bit of double ordering. Not anything
totally out of control, but definitely required a somewhat balancing out. But that feels like it's almost behind us now.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Yes, I would say a year ago,  months ago, I think we were worried that content would go down, maybe not significantly, but it would
reverse its long trend and go down, because people might move to smaller cars. What we are seeing in every region, in virtually every
model, the content keeps going up. There is just, the push for safety, the push for more fuel-efficient current engines, requires more
electronics. And the push for more connectivity, in general, so you can bring all of your smartphones right into the car is definitely driving
content across the board. That's the short-term, I would say, content driver.
The mid- to long-term content driver is hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles. And pretty much every auto maker now, if they haven't
introduced one, they are close to introducing one. So I think we are moving past it, it's really going to happen to -- because governments
are pushing fuel efficiency. So that's not really driving content yet, which is an exciting part of the business. That's going to come.
I think from a geography position, we are very strong in China. And in the last couple of years, we have made nice share gains in China, to
the best of our estimates. We have always been strong in Europe, and we are maintaining that. And we are picking up some -- a little bit
of share in the US, which historically was our smallest market because of the captive nature of the Big Three for most of their careers of
their suppliers of connectivity. That's opened up. And then, we kept investing during the downturn, and I think that's starting to help us
out.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Sure. I would say two things. In the commercial and industrial side, which is most of our business, the 12-inch screen or the 15-inch
screen, now we're introducing digital signage, things like that. In that business, it's been a little bit slow related to the consumer
slowdown. Typically slow late in the year. We're starting to see signs of orders pick up there.
We aren't yet participating in the consumer screen business. That was an objective of the acquisition, the small acquisition we made last
year, to be able to get some additional technology, potentially bundle it with our technology, and take a run at that. But we're not really
in that business yet. So, if you were to take the entire world of touch, and say, hey, that whole market, what's our market share? From
that perspective, it's down. I would say we are holding our share solidly in the commercial and industrial space. But as the consumer
space is the one that's really high growth, we haven't participated in that yet. And this is a key year for us to introduce a couple of
products there to get a beachhead.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
It's much more an organic focus. Take that technology and link it with some of our other technologies to get a big thing in the small
screen world is power, and can you do it with a minimal number of layers on the screen, which gives the rest of the device more flexibility.
So that's what we are trying to drive to. We don't think it's a winning strategy for us to just replicate what's already out there, which is
pretty established. So, that's our focus. And we wouldn't be looking at -- never say never, but we wouldn't be looking at doing that
inorganically right now, based on the technology.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thanks, Will.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
We certainly are going to try to do that. Our outlook would assume that it doesn't get higher than that. Part of it is how your contracts are
staged, and X amount -- about 20% to 30% of the business is what I'd call pay as you go. You do have agreements, but they don't tend to
be long-term. The rest of the product you are shipping today does tend to have some type of term to it. Now, in some cases, you do have
some flexibility to try to go in and adjust the price. But I would not expect, we're not limiting our efforts. But in terms of how we express it
in our guidance, we're not counting on a recovery of more than that.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Yes.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Sure. I think your assessment is fair. I think if you look at our consumer business, you can break it down into a few pieces. The
smartphone piece, tablet, PC, and traditional consumer electronics. Traditional consumer electronics, we're very selective in, and that
part of the business hasn't been that strong. Obviously, the strength has been in smartphone and tablet.
I would say the good news for us in the last six months is, we have a beachhead there. But that's clearly not our strong suit yet. We are
not broad-based in those markets as we would like to be. Those are attractive markets. And go back three or four years, we weren't really
in the mobile phone market at all. We did a nice job of getting established in the core business, and now we are going through the same
thing in the smartphone business. Again, if you were to put it on our list of things we feel best about, the things we don't feel best about,
you'd put this in the area we don't feel best about, but we have some momentum.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
You mean about the segments?
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
I would think of the segments as kind of an organizational gathering place. If you look at our segment leaders and the people they have
at the segment level, it's not a lot of people. Underneath, we are organized in about  business units. So, we tend to be organized
around market segment, and we gather aerospace and defense, our relay business, our automotive and commercial vehicle business and
transportation, our communications and industrial business segment, which we call CIS, has a bunch of segments in it. Everything from
medical and circuit protection, touch, data communication, consumer devices, industrial appliance.
And we try to group these things where there is the most synergy to be had. We like the businesses to be run vertically, so that somebody
wakes up every day in a business like appliance or like Telecom networks in our networks business. But we group them where they are
similar technology, because we have really a broad range of technology, and we also want to make sure we lever our scale, whether it's
purchasing power, whether it's manufacturing footprint. So that's kind of the organizational philosophy. So you could expect, over time,
the segments could be tweaked at times, like we have just done recently. But the units underneath them, the businesses themselves, are
pretty well established and full fledged businesses that we don't mess with.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Yes, there is a lot of activity, and every time somebody announces a new smartphone, or smartphone continues to gain a bigger portion
of the overall mobile network, or tablets for example, I think it's all good for broadband infrastructure. And it requires that structure to be
augmented by things like distributed antenna systems that add capacity and coverage in a cost-effective way. One, it's not easy to build
towers all over the place. And as you know, in a lot of buildings, your coverage tends to weaken.
So it's a strategic product line for both our Telecom networks and our enterprise business. And that was one of the attractive things
about ADC. I mean, it's still in the early stages, that whole portion of the market. But there is momentum there. There is a lot of RFP
activity.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Of course.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
More.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
I think we are still very confident, even despite the headwinds. I mean, we have to be successful on the pricing actions we talked about.
We have to be very successful with the integration of ADC, but that's off to a very good start and we're confident about that. We like the
mix of businesses we have. Our day to day, grind it out productivity, we're better at that than we were three or four years ago.
So, our view of -- if you take ADC aside, because it's going to take a couple of years to get that part of the business to 15%. But what I
would call the core business, still looking at 15% at the $14 billion revenue range. So, hasn't changed. There's a little more pressure on
that because of metal prices being much higher than we thought six months ago. But we would expect volume to be the biggest lever we
have, too.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
You're welcome.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thanks, Jim. So let me talk to the last part of that question first. We view that much of that market is attractive to go after, and we are
going after it. As you know, we are pretty much in every market, and in some, given our historical performance and expertise, we are
stronger than others. I think we have been getting better in this market, but we're not happy by any stretch of the imagination with our
position.
If you go back a year ago, where we were in the big smartphone players versus today, we definitely have a beachhead, as the saying goes.
So, we've won our first projects, we're shipping our first projects, and that's a start. I would agree that we have not benefited from the
growth in this market as much as others. But it is an important market for us. And we are going to be in it for the long haul. So, we're
investing in it.
 
Tom Lynch Tyco Electronics Corporation - CEO
Thanks, everyone.
 
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
 
our updated outlook for the full year 2011. With me today are CEO, Tom Lynch and CFO, Terrence Curtin.
During the course of this call we will be providing certain forward-looking information, and we ask you to review the forward-looking
cautionary statements included in today's press release. In addition, we will use certain non-GAAP measures in our discussion this
morning, and we ask you to review the sections of our press release and the accompanying slide presentation that address the use of
these items. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation, can be found on the investor relations portion of our
website at te.com.
Finally, for the participants on the Q&A portion of today's call, I would like to remind everyone to please limit themselves to  follow-up
question to make sure we are able to cover all questions during the allotted time. Now let me turn the call over to Tom for some opening
comments.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Thanks, Keith, and good morning everyone. Before we get into the detail of the call here I would just like to make a few opening
comments about the earthquake in Japan. As many of you probably know, we have a very sizable presence in Japan and we feel very
fortunate that all 2,000 of our people there came through the earthquake safely; and I really want to thank them in this venue for their
commitment to keeping our operations running and supporting our customers during these incredible -- incredibly trying times over
there.
Just a little background on our business in Japan; we have been there for over  years; we have  factories; we generate over $1 billion of
revenue annually there, serving virtually all the major customers in automotive, communications, industrial, and the consumer
electronics industries. And about 50% of our revenue there relates to our automotive business; and, as we will talk about today, you can
 
imagine there is an impact to our business over the next couple quarters from the unfortunate circumstances there.
Now if you will turn to slide 3. A few quick comments about the quarter before I turn it over to Terrence. Our sales of $3.5 billion were up
17% over last year and 7% organically. Our sales benefited from the ADC acquisition which added about $279 million of revenue
compared to the prior year. Adjusted earnings per share of $0.71 was up 11% over last year. And, both sales and adjusted EPS were in our
guidance range.
Japan did cost us about $0.01 in the quarter. It happened late in the quarter, as you know . And, as we will talk about later, currently our
estimate is that the impact is going to take about  million vehicles out of the global production forecast for the year.
Overall, I would describe Q2 as a solid quarter for us. The quarters were strong in our automotive, industrial, and networks businesses,
and our overall Book to Bill, excluding our SubCom business, was 1.05. So, I feel very good over -- about the trends leading into the
second half of the year when, notwithstanding the circumstances in Japan, we expect to see a nice pick-up in revenue and earnings. The
ADC acquisition integration is going very well, and we are on track to deliver our sales and adjusted earnings goals for the year of $1
billion and $0.12 per share. And, importantly, and we talked about this on the last call, we were also awarded a $400 million 5-year
contract to supply equipment for the Australian national broadband network; and this is the first big award leveraging the benefits of our
combined product line.
So, we feel very good about the timing of the ADC acquisition, both from an ability to stay on track with the significant cost synergies
there, as well as the very robust product line it is giving us. And we had another excellent cash flow quarter, generating about $450
million of free cash flow; and, as a result, we have now increased our full-year guidance on cash flow by about $100 million. So, we
expect to do $1.3 million -- $1.3 billion in free cash flow for the year.
A quick comment about our outlook, and we will cover this in more detail year later, right now our adjusted EPS outlook for the year is
now  to 307. A quarter ago we got it to  to 320, so the change -- the entire change in our outlook and the reduction in our outlook
is due to our estimates of the impact of the earthquake in Japan on our business. And, as you can imagine, it's -- it's not easy to get your
arms around this, so we will talk about that quite a bit over the call and I'm sure that will be a big topic of the Q&A. We do expect a
majority of the impact to be in our third quarter and, as I said, we will talk about Japan in more detail -- or the impact of Japan in more
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Thanks, Terrence. If you turn to page 13, I will talk real quickly about our orders. As you can see from the chart, and as I mentioned earlier,
our demand trends are strong in most of our businesses; of course, there is going to be a little bit of an offset to that -- a bit of an offset
to that -- from the reduction in orders, primarily related to Japan. I think the key point on this chart is that these trends really give us the
confidence around the increase in sales we expect in the second half ex Japan. So, the backlog is building and it's building pretty much
across the board.
If you turn to slide 14, and walk through the third and fourth quarter outlook; we provided a little more detail here than we normally do,
because there is probably more moving pieces, particularly with the Japan situation. But, to summarize Q3, we expect our sales to be in
the range of $3.5 billion to $3.65 billion. This is an increase of 13% to 18% over the prior year and relatively flat with Q2 levels. This does
include $320 million of revenues from ADC and, as Terrence mentioned earlier, the negative impact of about $135 million of revenue in
Japan.
We expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $0.68 to $0.74. This range is a little wider than normally due to the uncertainty around the
effect of Japan, which we currently estimate to have a $0.09 negative impact. The reconciliation on the left side of the slide lays out the
key elements. I think the real key point here is that, excluding Japan, we would be at a mid-point of around $0.80, which is right where
we were a quarter ago when we gave our full-year guidance. That is what we were expecting; in the third quarter we -- this the quarter
 
we expected to see the sales ramp. In fact, if you go back as far as when we did our original guidance in November, this is how we really
expected the year to play out. A few puts and takes in there; but, overall, the year, with the exception of Japan, playing out the way we
thought.
If you turn to the right side of the chart, we are providing an extra quarter's outlook here; again, to give you a little more granularity to
understand the flow . We expect sales to be in the range of $3.8 billion to $3.98 billion. This is an increase of 22% to 27% over the prior
year. And, we expect EPS to be $0.83 to $0.89, up from the mid-point of $0.71 in the third quarter. Now, this improvement from Q4 over
Q3 reflects the benefits of the pricing actions that really start to take effect late Q3, a less impact from the Japan situation and our 
week . And, we also expect our operating margins to back at that 14% range in Q4.
If you flip the page to page 15; a real quick snapshot of what all this means in terms of the full-year. I think the main point here is, despite
the impact of Japan, we expect it to be a strong year with adjusted EPS growth of 16% to 21% . And, if you look at the reconciliation we
have on the lower left-hand side of this page, you get a sense of the big levers in the business. I think the real positive thing here is you
can -- you see the contributions of the volume, the ADC acquisition, and the benefits of our cash flow more than offsetting the metals
cost increase this year and the Japan disruption.
And, then when you think about it, from the second half, we've got strong orders going into the second half, we've got the price increases
going into the second half, and that is a day-to-day thing. You've got the contribution of $0.10 in the second half from ADC, and then you
have another strong half of cash flow. So, this is enabling us to, despite the situation in Japan, have a nice pickup in earnings.
When you wrap all this up, I feel good about the earnings power of the Company . Several key earnings drivers that are very powerful for
us this year, and we expect them to carry forward into the future, which is strong positions in markets with attractive growth prospects.
We go through our portfolio, I think we feel good about our position in 90% of the markets we are in, both from the market drivers, as
well as where we stand and the momentum we have.
We do need to improve in the consumer side, which is about a little less than 10% of our business. The operating leverage in the
Company is better than it was several years ago, with all the restructuring and portfolio cleanup that you are familiar with. And we're
running -- we're generating more cash in this business, which gives us the opportunity to do things like ADC or smaller bolt-on
acquisitions that can contribute to EPS or return more capital to shareholders, and, as we mentioned, that's been about $400 million so
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Yes. Thanks, Amit. I guess two parts to that question. The first part, we would expect demand to recover over time, particularly I think it is
a little harder to call the in Japan demand, because of all the disruption in the country. We would expect that's going to take longer, so
that the cars that are not sold there in the second half of our fiscal year, I think that 'll take longer to come back. But, we would expect,
 
much like we saw after the big downturn two years ago in the auto industry, the pent-up demand is pretty resilient and comes back
pretty fast as the production is there.
So, I would -- if we lose  million cars in the second half of this year, we would expect to get two thirds of that back in the first half of next
year. I think that's what the experts are saying and we are talking to our customers that's what we would expect. I think you can expect
the margin flow through of similar on the upside because we're not going to lay in any extra costs. So, what's really happening now is as
the volume goes down, we're not taking people out of the factories in Japan, for obvious reasons . And, as it comes back, we wouldn't
expect we're going to need to lay an extra variable cost to meet the volume. So, I would expect a similar flow through on those
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Yes, margins were down. I think we expected about, we expected most of that because of what we saw in the mix of our business, I think
there was a little worse than we thought because volumes were lower in consumer and Datacom especially. And I think Datacom is an
industry, more of an industry issue although Datacom grew year-over-year wasn't as much as we thought consumer, we just don't have a
strong position there.
So, yes a little more margin pressure than we thought, so you have less volume to offset the price erosion in that business in the metals.
We do expect improvement by the fourth quarter. Datacom, again, would be more market demand whereas consumer hits us,
establishing a little bit of beachhead in some of these markets that we're just not participating in today. So, our consumer business will
take a little longer to improve, but, overall, we expect CIS margins to improve by Q4.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Sure. I would say for us, our networks business are a little stronger than we thought. We expected -- we saw the signs because of our RFP
activity that they were going to pick up. And they had been, as you know, kind of soft for a few years, so we expected a pick up. And, I
would say a little bit stronger there in energy telecom networks which is down for the big carriers and in enterprise. So, that's a positive I
would say. You mentioned auto, auto's definitely a little bit stronger than we thought and we expect it to be pretty robust this year.
Overall, the Datacom business, which is selling to the companies that provide the gear that powers the Internet, that has been mixed for
us, I think overall the year is going to be okay. But, probably a little slower than we thought and we attribute the first half of that more
the -- that got hot in the middle of last year and I think we laid out that there's probably a little bit of inventory in the channel, not
anything too over the top. So, I would say that one has been a little bit less than we would have thought and consumer a little less than
we thought. We didn't have very high expectations because we know we knew where we were coming into the year on the platforms that
were gaining momentum and we weren't very well-positioned, frankly, on the winning platforms. So, that is one that we knew was going
to take us awhile to regain our momentum, but that has been a little softer. So, overall I would say revenues balanced slightly better,
notwithstanding all the impact in Japan.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
I would say think of it as primarily an organic strategy. We have had intermittent success in that business over the last three or four years
. I would say five or six years ago in the mobile side of it, we really did not have a position, and then we had a fair amount of success with
two of the largest mobile phone suppliers. But, our product line wasn't broad-based enough.
We need to -- we have a nice road map now, but most of this is stuff that is just an extension of our normal connectivity. I would not
expect -- you shouldn't expect us to do anything significant around M&A in this. I'd never say never, but we believe that there is attractive
relative improvement just by executing
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Let me hit that one first and talk just a little bit about it. No, absolutely. When you look at the total market and how it's moved, we have
lost market share. I would say the biggest part of that is because of the big horses we were riding are struggling in the market a little bit,
but that is what it is. And, as I mentioned earlier, not a broad enough product line.
No, we're committed to the business and the reason is Jim, it's just another flavor of our core connectivity business. I think if this was
something totally different that we did, we might think about it differently, but we ought to be able to do a better job of leveraging our
scale and leveraging our resources in this business to compete. So, I would say the only good news about it is, as bad as we feel about
our performance right now it's all upside in the way and all we have to go and make it happen.
That's not going to happen overnight, but, like we did when we really got broke back into it after being out of it years ago, we feel like we
know how to do it. And, we've got much more focus on the business in the last six months from a structural point of view. So, we feel
good in terms of the road map and things like that, but we've got to get them into the customer and sustain them in the customer. I think
that's the key in this business, you've got to be broad based, similar to the way we are in auto, we are on every car. So, we ride the
benefits of that. We need to be broader-based in this business. I will let Terrence answer the SubCom question.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Sure. As you can imagine, we have a pretty extensive crisis management process around this. The big part of it based with our leadership
team in Japan, which is a very seasoned leadership. So, we, every other day literally, between our automotive and our CIS businesses,
because that's where this impact is, we get a read from our team in Japan on what they're seeing.
And, I'd say there is really three big parts to it, there is our end customers and are they going to be able to ship products, which is where I
would say the part that not that any of this is easy, but to get our arms around, because customer a or customer b says, we're not going
back to full production until such and such, or this plant is closed for the next three weeks we know how much we are scheduled to ship
them. So, that's a big part of this.
The second piece is our own supply-chain, which the good news is we have been very fortunate there as well, that it is not too disruptive.
We did have some suppliers that were, unfortunately, knocked out and we did have some single source parts, but that is a pretty small
part of that I would say. Of our $225 million, it is single digit percent of that.
And, the third piece, which is the hardest to really get our arms around, and, as I've talked to other CEOs, it is the hardest time they are
having is the extended supply-chain. So, it's the supplier who supplies to another supplier, who supply to one of our customers. We may
not have a problem delivering a part to them, but two levels down in their supply-chain, they might have an issue, and the trickiest part is
there's always inventory in the channel, so we're only a month into this approximately, there's inventory to cover that. So, I think we all
feel like we don't really know what we don't know .
We've put a number on that based on the best information that we have and that's how we come up to this $225 million, I think it's fluid
for sure, Wamsi, we hope it's better than that. It could be worse than that. I would say, candidly, the impact on order rates isn't that bad
yet, but we also know from what our customers are saying, it's going to probably get worse before it gets better.
So, it is elusive. This is our best way and then the way we sort of take a step back, take a big picture, do a sanity check around it is we do
plus or minus $75 million to $100 million a month in Japan. So, that seems outlandish that we could have a two-month disruption over
the next six months for all these customers that we serve in Japan when you consider the power outages and everything else, no. That
doesn't seem that crazy to think about it that way, so that is really how we try to come into a number that we think is reasonable, that is
not wildly optimistic or wildly conservative. Time will
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Yes, I'd say if you go actually and look at one of these bridges that we talked to over there, a little bit stronger volume in other markets,
probably a little higher metals than three or four months ago. And, a little bit of a benefit from exchange rate, so when you net it all out,
yes, I think we say $0.14 down from Japan and our midpoint is off $0.11, so slightly better, yes, you're right.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
No, there isn't any additional cost like that. I think the simplest way to think about it, Steve, is our margin right now is roughly 30%, 30%,
31%, so you are going to at least have that. We're not really taking very much variable cost out of these plants in Japan, so the people are
still there for a full week, not a partial week for a lot of reasons, right. And, because we think the short term, we want to be ready to
 
produce. So, if you had a more of a sustained downturn in a business, you'd adjust your labor costs quickly and all your variable costs
quickly.
So, this assumes more than normal inefficiencies, we think that's going to be short-term, but that is why you would see a flow through, I
think what you're basically saying is why isn't it just 30%, 33% something like that, your average flow through, because were not taking
any other costs out.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Hi, Sherri, this is Tom. This team has done a great job, did a great job managing through the downturn, and as you know, we're very
aggressive getting our capacity in that business in order probably a little faster than we otherwise would've without that downturn, so
that helped a lot.
So, we do believe this is kind of the right level of margin and we will try to improve it, of course. It is coming off a little bit in the third
quarter because of the Japan impact, again you're taking $100 million of automotive sales out, and, in there, we also have aerospace,
defense, marine business which is our highest margin business in the Company and they are performing well, in addition. So, you will see
a little dip in -- you will see some dip in transportation margin in Q3 and then we would expect that begin to recover and move back up
again in Q4.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Sure. As you know, when we went into the downturn, we had our boat  at  goal, the good news was we really got that to about 14%, a
little bit over the $12 billion level and then kind of reset it 15% at $14 billion of revenue, excluding ADC. Because ADC is going to have a
margin rate drag on it, as you know, because we picked that business up at mid-single digits. We will go out at the end of this year we
expect to be in double digits and then by the end of next be closing in on our average company margin.
So, for the non-ADC piece of the business, we still believe, even though metals are a little higher, quite higher than when we set this
target that this is still a business that we should be able to get to the 15% margin range in the $14 billion, non-ADC business range. So, a
little room to improve in the margin.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
In other words, a little bubble?
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Like an ordering bubble I think, Will, is what you are talking about? I'd say we see a little bit of that right now, but not really significant. I
think $10 million, $20 million of a little extra ordering. We are watching for that because I think we're certainly mindful that it wouldn't be
unusual for people to say I'm going to order more just in case, so we see a little bit of that, but we have not seen a lot of that right now.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
We think there's a number of areas where we could strengthen the Company through M&A. We have a fairly robust pipeline. We have
been building this for several years after not being in that business so to speak for a long time. And, last year, we made a couple of, in
addition to the big one in ADC, we made a couple of small technology acquisitions that have really strengthened our fiber connectivity
capability. So, we're always on the lookout for that. I think the ADC types are going to be few and far between, primarily because there
are just not that many out there like that.
So, I think our priorities will be to number one, add technology through bolt-ons and then where can we had product lines that we don't
have in some of our -- we've talked in the past around harsh environment, industrial energy types of businesses. So, we clearly think that,
given our cash flow, that is a good way to build value in the business if we can find the right opportunities. We passed a lot more than
we've decided to do, because it's got to fit our value proposition and, fundamentally, we feel that there's an awful lot of opportunity to
improve this Company organically, both by organic growth through the broad range of technology and product lines we already have, as
well as continuing through the P&L. So, it's going to be in our mix for sure, Will. I guess that's the way I would say it, but nothing
imminent right now of any size.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
It's hard to get specific on things that haven't happened for obvious reasons, because the customers don't really want us to talk about
them yet. But, I think we're pretty bullish on the pipeline, a lot of activity. I've been out over the last couple months to a couple of the
really big customers, and when you just look at the data that's being demanded, now that everybody is getting tablets in SmartPhones,
it's taxing the system and while a lot of it is wireless broadband, you need quite a wired infrastructure, fiber infrastructure, to support
that.
So, we saw that our networks businesses were up 20% year-over-year and our telecom, non-ADC portion of that, just run apples to
apples because I think that is the best indicator, was up 30%. Our last year wasn't a robust year, but the spending is increasing and we
see a lot of activity in Asia-Pac like NBN, a couple of other big ones that RFPs are in the works down that way and we see a lot of activity
in Europe. Both those areas have much less fiber in the network than the US does. Although we expect activity to be picking up again in
the US, so that growth is really driven without much US growth in it, so we think it's coming into a good cycle for this business.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
It's an opportunity that's tough. The way that I would put it. We do have a decent beachhead now through the acquisition, but
infrastructure in the big emerging markets is probably amongst the toughest businesses. But, we've good products, we have local
products and combining ADC and ourselves gives us a more robust product line there. So, that's part of our growth assumption .
We're not counting on extraordinary success there to drive this business. We're counting on being there and capitalizing on high market
growth, being a player, but we don't really expect to have anywhere near the kind position we do in Europe or the US, or Latin America.
Because it's a high-growth, it will
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd - CEO
Thank you very much, everyone.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks, Keith and good morning everyone. I will cover the highlights of Q3, a little bit of overview of Q4, and then I will turn it over to
Terrence, and he'll walk us through the details. If you can please turn to slide three now. This was a very good quarter for us. Sales of $3.7
billion were up 21% versus last year, and were better than guidance, due to a less than unexpected, unfavorable impact from the Japan
earthquake, and the strong year-over-year growth was driven primarily by 5% organic growth that more than offset approximately $70
million of less sales due to the situation in Japan, and also a significant contribution from the ADC acquisition of about $300 million in
sales.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.78 is a new high for us, and is up from $0.70 last year. We exceeded our guidance range primarily
because of the lesser impact from Japan. We expected a $0.09 unfavorable impact and turned out to be $0.05. And really there, both
our customers and our suppliers as well as our team did a terrific job in recovering faster than I think that anyone thought was possible at
the time.
 
We also had another strong cash flow quarter generating $340 million of free cash flow, and we returned the entire amount to
shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. As I think you know our increased dividend rate kicked in this quarter.
Overall our performance in the quarter was driven primarily by continued strength in our automotive business, where we continue to see
double-digit growth in all regions except Japan in Q3. Continued strong demand in our telecom networks business in every region, and
the contributions from the ADC acquisition which as you know are part of our networks business, and almost now fully integrated in the
telecom business. These positives more than offset the continued softness in CIS, which we expected.
To highlight a little our network solutions business this segment had a very strong quarter generating $1 billion in sales, and delivering
adjusted operating margins of 14%. And the ADC integration continues to progress very well. We are delivering the synergies we outlined
a year ago, and the whole integration, I couldn't be happier actually, it is coming along very well, and we feel just about like one company
already.
Orders during the quarter were $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion if you exclude our Subcom business. Our book to bill was 1-to-1 excluding
Subcom. Despite the macro uncertainty right now, our orders in automotive, aerospace, energy and telecom were solid throughout Q3,
and have continued this way so far in July, and so all four of those businesses have been running double-digit order growth. The Data
Comm business which we thought would be on track by now continues to be softer than expected, and we also did see a little softening
in the distribution channel late in the quarter.
For the fourth quarter our guidance is essentially unchanged, and we expect adjusted EPS in the range of $0.84 to $0.88, and just a
reminder our fourth quarter has an extra week, and without this extra week we estimate adjusted earnings per share would be $0.79 to
$0.83. This is another strong quarter year-on-year growth compared to the $0.72 we delivered last year. And for the full year we are
increasing our annual guidance range to $3.06 to $3.10 of adjusted EPS, which is a little over 20% increase compared to the $2.54 we
delivered in 2010. The increase in our guidance is due to the better than expected Q3 performance. So we are basically holding Q4 at our
prior guidance level.
So with those highlights I will turn it over to Terrence, and he will walk through the quarter in more detail.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Six to nine months is a long time out, but I will give you my best shot. From one perspective as I think we discussed throughout this recap
here, if you look at two of our three segments, orders are strong in the infrastructure rebuild arena, or whether it be telecom or enterprise
or energy, and for sure in automotive. And the signals from and I have been out to a lot of customers in the last couple of months, the
signals from the automotive customers are very bullish. Now I know they want us to make sure we are ready with the production, because
when things bounce back quickly a year and a half ago the whole supply chain was catching up, so we have to filter all of that. But I do
believe that they are really bullish about next year, and the industry has been publishing numbers that are fairly bullish in terms of
growth next year. Right now everything we see supports continued strength in automotive and continued strength in network.
The CIS network is really mixed into three broad things. We are strong in the Data Comm business, we are well positioned there, we have
a lot of strategic momentum with design-ins, but the market as you can tell from following the big companies that provide the routing
and the infrastructure and the services, is really kind of all over the place. It is hard to discern a trend. For us it is going a bit sideways.
Industrial is solid for us. It has been solid all year in terms of order growth. A little higher than normal growth. Slowed down a bit in the
last few weeks, but we think that is more related to price increases and the summer. But we are watching that.
And then the consumer business, which in parts of the consumer business, smartphone and tablet in particular that are very strong, that
as we talked the last couple of calls we are not that strong. So we step back from the picture I think we feel, clearly we feel confident
about Q4 given the order rate we have into Q4, and the things I just said. Beyond there is always in this business the visibility somewhat
limited. I would say I feel more positive than negative overall for sure.
 
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I think it as little hard to tell, Shawn. As we dig into it we definitely know we have and I am sure other do, the impact of when you decide
to raise prices, the channel buys a little bit ahead, and there are ways we manage that with them. So we always have that impact. It is the
summer so we always see a little bit around this time of softness. I think the wilder card is demand softening a little bit. We do see a little
softening in Data Comm and Industrial. Some of that flows through the channel. There is an element of that that is softening. This is on
the watch closely list. Don't assume this is just a blip. We are not assuming it is falling off the edge, but one that gets a lot of attention
from our team to gather as much information as we can.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I would say if you go into the carrier part of the business it is pretty strong right now. You have to go by geography, and you have to go by
segment in geography. Internationally, it is very strong. Less fiber deployed out there and we talked about NBN for example in Australia,
all the way up to China has got more activity going, and Europe has a lot of activity going. A lot of quotes and a lot of building going on.
The US is really kind of two stories. The big carriers pausing right now for a couple of different reasons that you are aware of. The
secondary carriers buying as they have let fiber in the network, stimulus was geared in that direction, and then of course, this business
that we acquired as part of ADC, this distributed antennae system to help coverage is very strong right now, in-building and around
building and in major event settings. There are a bunch of different things driving it, but we do feel like we are in a good cycle, and when
we look at our Subcom business, which is clearly related to all that, a lot of quote activity. More quote activity this year than last year.
Always have to go through funding and everything, so we feel good about that particular business.
Enterprise I think is moving along at a more steady level. Not on the growth trajectory of telecom, but lots of activity there. Similar
drivers, more bandwidth, more security in the enterprise. And then the Energy business which is also in our Networks business as you
know was flat to slightly down for three years, and I think the deferral of maintenance and upgrades has just caught up, and there is
pent-up demand there, so we have been growing at double-digits nicely there, and would expect that to continue. All indications from
our customers are that will continue. Terrence, you want to add anything to that.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
As far as our appetite for additional M&A I think it really hasn't changed for the right strategic fits at the right size. We are definitely
always looking, and building our pipeline. I think what ADC has done has given us confidence that we can do this well. This business is
very well integrated, and it won't be long before we are not talking about ADC because it will be so well integrated that, I mean the sales
forces are integrated. The factories are just about integrated. The lines of demarcation won't be so clear anymore, and of course that is
how we get the rest of the synergy as well. I think we have the confidence to do more, we are selective the way I think about us, and we
are strategic with them, not opportunistic.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Of course, we can't get specific, but I would say if you were to look at our pipeline, you would put most of what is on our pipeline list in a
tuck-in category. As I said before, I wouldn't say we would never do a $1 billion-plus acquisition, if we had one that fit our strategic
objective that fit our sort of value criteria we are more than willing to do it. But generally speaking in the industries we are in, and the
industries that we want to augment through bolt-on acquisitions, it would be more the $200 million or $300 million sales level range in
general.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
The feedback from customers in terms of the product range and from the customer's perspective of more one-stop shopping has been
really positive, and I have talked to several of them over the last several months. I think how we have integrated on the front end to bring
 
the story to the customer has been received very well. We started to see what I would call small wins out there with the combined
product line that supports our acquisition theory that we were going to be able to get some growth over and above industry growth by
being able to bundle the products and come in and provide a simpler solution.
I think in the US where ADC is strong in their carrier business, it is slow growth right now because of the potential M&A going on in that
space, and the sorting out of how companies might come together, and what that implies for short-term capital spending. As I said, in
the second tier it is strong, and in the digital antenna business it is extremely strong. So when we look at the acquisition case compared
to where we were, it is really we are hitting on every element of our assumption.
So we feel very good about it as each month goes by we feel like we hit this at the right time. The team is getting the synergy at or ahead
of pace, and the cultural integration which is usually the toughest thing, and the one that could upset things is going very, very well,
because we have basically taken the best-of-the-best approach, and if you look across that business and take the top management, it is
a nice mix of ADC and TE. So we feel really good about it.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you Jim.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks, Jim.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I would add to that I think we are making very good progress. It is difficult progress but it was, we had to make some progress, and the
team just stayed with it. I think this kind of pricing, industries aren't used to it in electronics. On the other hand we aren't used to the
commodity costs, and we can't take them at the rate they are at. A lot of preparation, multiple meetings, but we are getting there with it.
So I feel very good about the progress.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Could you repeat the questions on the customers again?
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Oh yes, some new program launches with the guys that reported last night. I think last quarter we have a little bit of a beachhead. Now
we are probably a couple of feet off the beach onto the land. So we are making progress it is really building up consumer team's
confidence, but we still have a long ways to go, and consistency is what we need in that business. Making progress and making progress
with the right customer. But we have got to string together three or four more quarters of that kind of progress.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thank you.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks everyone for your questions.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks, Keith, and good morning, everyone. If you could please turn to slide 3. This was a good quarter for the Company and a strong
finish to our fiscal year.
Sales in the fourth quarter of $3.9 billion were up 25% overall versus last year and were up 2% organically. And as a reminder, this
excludes currency translation, acquisitions, and about $277 million in sales that happened in the last week, which was the 14th week in
the quarter.
Our Q4 growth was driven primarily by our Transportation and Network segments. In the Transportation segment we are benefiting from
strong end markets and share gains. In Automotive, worldwide vehicle production was up 6% and our sales were up 13% organically. I
am really pleased that we continue to execute very well in this business across all geographies, especially China and North America.
 
In our Networks segment, the acquisition of ADC contributed revenues of $323 million in Q4. We did see continued strength in global
broadband infrastructure investment, and we continue to see the benefits of the ADC acquisition with our much stronger end-to-end
product line.
Energy infrastructure investment also continued to grow around the world, and we had another strong quarter in this business. In total,
the strength in Transportation and Networks more than offset weakness in our CIS segment, where we continued to experience soft
market demand and distributor inventory corrections.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.89, up 24% versus Q4 of  and above the high end of our guidance range. Excluding the impact
of the extra week, adjusted EPS were $0.81, which was in line with our guidance and up 13% versus the prior year.
Free cash flow is a very strong $560 million in the quarter. As a result of our expectation for continued strong cash generation, our Board
increased the share repurchase authorization by $1.5 billion and approved a recommendation to increase the dividend by 17% beginning
in the third fiscal quarter of 2012.
Let me say a few words about the full year. Sales were up 19% overall and 6% organically. I feel this was good overall growth considering
the challenging macroeconomic environment of the past year.
We had very strong performance in our Automotive; Aerospace, Defense, and Marine; Telecom; and Energy businesses. And this more
than offset the disappointing performance in the CIS segment.
Adjusted earnings per share of $3.12, which is a record for us, was up about 20% from $2.54 in fiscal 2010. This increase was primarily
the result of organic sales growth and productivity improvements, the acquisition of ADC, and the benefit of share repurchases.
Free cash flow for the year was $1.4 billion. Our strong, consistent cash generation enabled us to make the ADC acquisition, which gave
us a leading position in broadband infrastructure markets -- and this is a market that we continue to get more and more excited about --
and as well as enabled us to return $1.2 billion to our shareholders this fiscal year. This balance of acquisition and return of cash to
shareholders is consistent with our strategy and consistent with the strategy that we launched four years ago.
Now let me turn it over to Terrence, and he will discuss fourth-quarter performance in more detail, and then I will come back to make
some final comments and discuss our outlook.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks, Terrence. If you can turn to slide 14, in  we expect organic growth of 2% to 6%. This compares to 6% in 2011. This is in line,
I'd say, with current expectations for a slight slowdown in global economic growth in our fiscal 2012.
For the first quarter, we expect our sales to be in the range of $3.4 billion to $3.5 billion. This is an increase of 6% to 9% over the prior
year. On an organic basis, which excludes the ADC acquisition, this is essentially flat versus the prior year; Terrence touched on that a
little earlier.
In addition to normal seasonality, Q1 will be affected by continued weakness in CIS markets. By segment, we expect continued strength
in Transportation and expect this segment to be up about 10%. Networks will be flat, and CIS will be down about 10%.
Our Q1 EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.68 to $0.72. This is down slightly versus the prior year. The essence of this is that the CIS
weakness is more than offsetting the benefits of having ADC in the quarter.
For the full year, sales are expected to be $14.3 billion to $14.9 billion. Adjusting for ADC and the additional week in fiscal 2011, organic
growth is expected to be 2% to 6%. The midpoint of our guidance is $14.6 billion and the major assumptions underlying this are as
follows.
We expect and the industry expects auto production to grow about 5% to  million vehicles. We expect continued growth in telecom
and energy infrastructure investment. We expect SubComm sales in the range of about $600 million. And we do expect the market
served by our CIS business to begin to improve in the second half of the year.
 
This translates into an adjusted EPS in the range of $3.10 to $3.40. And that compares to the  adjusted EPS of $3.03; and again, that
is excluding the extra week in 2011.
At the guidance midpoint of $3.25 EPS, this is approximately 7% earnings growth, driven by the sales increase, increased further ADC
synergies, and the benefits of our strong cash generation.
Just to sum it up before Q&A, I would say  was a very good year for the Company with many positive accomplishments. We had
strong sales growth and record EPS coupled with $1.4 billion of free cash generation.
We improved our share and capitalized on the positive trends in the Automotive, Aerospace, Defense, Marine, Energy, and Telecom
markets.
I am really proud of what the team did in completing and integrating ADC. This is a tremendous addition to our Company; and again,
welcome to all the folks from ADC who are doing a great job for us. This integration, as I said, is right on track and the operating margins
have doubled inside the year of acquisition, as we committed.
As I mentioned earlier, performance in some of our CIS businesses was not up to expectation. This was a business had a great year in
fiscal '10. The market hit us; we didn't quite react as fast as we could have in '11. But I am confident that we are getting this back on track
and we are going to see improved performance in the second half of the year as we get through the inventory adjustment.
So all in all, a good year for the Company. I really feel like we are a stronger Company than we were a year ago. And although we are in a
bit of uncertain times I am really confident that if the market is flat we will do -- we will perform solidly; and if the market does pick up we
will perform well. With that, let's open it up for questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Jim, thanks. No impact from Thailand -- no noticeable impact, although we have a little business there. It really boils down to CIS.
A year ago CIS was ramping. As I mentioned, through  we had a very good year. We expected the business to continue to grow. We
had been chasing it up, I think like a lot of companies in 2010, and we were making sure we got in sync with what we expected was a
growing market.
It started to slow down throughout 2011. So if you think of a year ago, we were ramping; now we are still adjusting downward. And that is
the whole impact.
So that is more than offsetting ADC. The balance of the business is very good. So it is really a CIS issue.
 
As we get through the inventory adjustment you will again see the operating leverage that you saw throughout the Company in FY '11 kick
in, in the second half of FY '12.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
We have been adjusting our costs down. I would say tightening down; it is more that than any big restructuring. I will let Terrence get into
a little more detail in a minute.
So yes; as we saw the slowdown was going to continue three to four months ago we began ramping down. Our total headcount is down
over 3,000 in the last  days.
With respect to the 15% margin, I would expect us -- if we get back to normal revenue growth early next year to be on that. That's still the
right next step for us. I don't think there is anything fundamental that is in the way of that. The pricing that we were able to do this year
has offset some of the material costs.
About the only piece of our business that is really weaker fundamentally I would say than a year ago is consumer. We have been talking
about that. But that has stabilized; and even at the current levels, that is not going to hold us back from getting to 15% margin.
Terrence, you want to elaborate on the restructuring?
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Sure. Let me just reiterate the fundamental assumptions underneath it. So it is predicated on auto production of 5% to 6% getting to
about  million units. So we would expect our Automotive business to grow higher than that, as is typical. We would expect the
Networks business organically to grow in the low to mid single digits, largely impacted by the slowdown in North America right now,
 
which is related to everything going on and the potential consolidation of the carriers there.
We will pick up the benefit of ADC. So overall that gives us about growth in the 7% range.
In CIS, it is really a tale of two halves. Down about  to  in the first half; up  to  in the second half. And that is year-over-year
comparison. So those are the major assumptions embedded in that.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I would expect in that range. I mean we had another very good year. As you know, Shawn, we are strong in every single market in every
part of the world.
We clearly, by every angle we look at it, picked up share in North America and in China. I would say we held on to our very strong position
in Europe. So I would expect that we will continue to grow above the production rate -- probably not quite as much as we did in FY '11, to
be candid.
I think we are not reducing our expectations, but with an exceptional year part of that was still the benefits coming out of the downturn
when we kept investing. But we would expect to inch our share up a little more in '12, but probably not have as big a jump as we did in '11.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I'll tell you, we look at it every hour of every day. I wouldn't say warning signs. I mean, clearly softness in car purchases in Southern
Europe, but that is not new. That has really been going on for four or five years.
The German market continues to be strong. I don't think as bullish as two or three months ago. It was really -- our customers are really
bullish and you have seen they are still bullish, but maybe not quite as much.
Continue to expect strong growth in China, probably a little slower than last year but still very robust. So we -- everybody is our customer;
we are very plugged in; we are super sensitive obviously from three years ago. So we have our tentacles into every place we can to pick up
any insights.
But if you look at even the most recent orders we are not seeing any signs yet. And we know our customers are also more in tune and
ready to react to any unfavorable indicators. So I wouldn't say warning signs, no.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Thanks, Steve. Yes, I guess the way I think about it is, you just look at the fundamental demands on the networks and no end in sight. The
capacity is being stretched. Coverage needs to expand. The throughput needs to expand. So there's fundamental drivers.
I think we are always going to see a lumpiness in demand. In my entire career around this -- and I have spent most of my career around
this business -- it has always been lumpy because it is significant investments that go in and then a pause. So I think the combination of
what is going on in our Q4 in North America, on top of the last year a pretty robust investment around the world, means it is going to
grow slower.
We grew 14% organically in the Network business in fiscal year '11. So it was a tremendous year of both market growth and share growth
for us. Add on top of that ADC, so a big year for us.
We see that organic growth being kind of in the low single digits in the midpoint of our assumption for fiscal '12. So we definitely expect it
to slow down a bit. I don't think we are unrealistically optimistic with that kind of assumption.
We do hope things get worked out in North America soon. There is certainly the need for the investment. That is what our customers are
telling us, to stay ready.
But we had a lot of experience in this market, so know that it can be lumpy. But we are positioned very well in the product range and we
are positioned very well in our cost structure, so we will capitalize on the upside and we will manage through any slowdown.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Probably I'm not going to get that detailed; but I will say we are -- that is another group. We do an awful lot of business through the
channel, so we are -- and I am personally in touch with my peers there all the time. We are seeing pretty much all the same trends, which
-- there is a little bit too much inventory in the channel. And adjustment for that we all expect.
They are more the eyes and ears for us. We really rely on that, that Q2 -- through Q2 we expect it to level out.
We are not seeing it drop off as much as we did over the last couple months, so we are seeing a flattening out, which is encouraging. And
as long as end demand stays okay I would expect we will be through this in Q2.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
So let me answer the smartphones first. If I understood the last part of your question, just to clarify, I wouldn't say we are not
participating deliberately. I think you know the story for us is -- we had a decent position in the handset business. When it shifted over the
last couple of years more to smartphone, and there was a customer shift we didn't react to it very well. That is really -- I would call that
execution issues on our part.
So we like the smartphone business. We believe there is no reason we can't do better. We have most of the right products.
Now we have a bit of a new approach to the market. We have had some success, as I said, in handsets in the past. So I think we know how
to compete there; and I am a lot more confident now that we have stabilized our position.
So that is a market that we expect to do better in. It is not going to happen overnight, but there is no fundamental reason that we can't
do better in that market.
 
And the first part of your question was where we made the (multiple speakers)
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Yes.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Boy, you really have to go by region to get that. As you know, content is quite an aggregated average number. It's in the emerging
markets; it is just an increase in features across-the-board.
It is more safety. It is more antilock brake systems. It is things like that.
It is reduction -- a drive to reduce weight, which actually helps us. Even though the size of our products go down, there tend to be more
complexity.
In the Western world it is the gradual -- and it is still a small part of the business -- but it's the gradual increase in hybrid electric vehicles
that as you know have a lot more content.
But overall, content hasn't moved that much. It continues to steadily march up; that 5% or 6% a year is what we see.
Then what we're really excited about, that is sort of the tipping point for HEV hits in the next three, five, six years. Then you will see a nice
-- that average content will go up higher than that.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Well, as you know, with all the metal cost increases we faced over the last few years I think the industry in general -- certainly speaking
for us in particular, we raised prices. Modest price increases. But those are in place now.
If we were to see another spike we are ready to do that again. It is to a point where when copper is raising 20% or 30% a year and gold
30% to 40% a year, we have to add that on. So I think that was an important accomplishment for our organization in the past year.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
I would say both. DAS or distributed antenna systems was very strong this year. That product is used (technical difficulty) demand
coverage and capacity in and around buildings and in large venues like stadiums. So that was the strongest segment within ADC.
The other benefits we have seen are a number of big deals around the world where we now walk in with a very comprehensive
end-to-end product line. So we certainly have seen strength outside the US of the combination of that. The first half of the year was a
solid year in the traditional fiber copper in the US, and then it slowed down in the second half.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Again for next year, I would say we expect another strong year in DAS; a little bit slower year in the fiber and copper connectivity.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Yes.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Sure, Sherri; thanks. I would say number one it is the inventory correction. That is the biggest thing.
Slight improvement in end markets. And I would expect a slight improvement in our consumer business. Nothing miraculous, but kind of
steady, extent, beachhead kind of improvement.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
In terms of the last question, yes, very -- I feel very good about our profit margins there. And of course you have to run very fast to keep
that.
 
Clearly, our strongest position there is in automotive. If you think about China, there are kind of three submarkets is how I think about it.
It's the markets driven by local consumption that are served by multinational competitors and local competitors. In Automotive, for
example, we are strong with both.
Energy and telecom and enterprise, which is all local consumption, again I would say we are pretty strong in telecom, especially with our
recent acquisition, although it is a very fragmented market. And in enterprise, which is also a fragmented market, but we have a strong
market position.
And energy is an extremely fragmented market. We are growing with the market, but there's hundreds of competitors and we have a
small market share.
The balance of the third piece of the way I think about it is a piece that it's really manufacturing for export. There is local demand; but
PCs, handsets, DataComm infrastructure, all of that. And that really follows more the global demand patterns. We are there for lower
cost manufacturing.
So I think that really follows our position in our other markets. So in consumer we are not so strong; we are solid in DataComm; we're
pretty strong in industrial, for example. I don't know if that gives you a little bit of an answer to your question.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
(multiple speakers) unusual. It slowed down in the middle of the year in all the markets. Automotive slowed down a bit but it picked up
nicely in the end of the year, and we had a very strong, very solid level double-digit automotive growth in the fourth quarter.
I would say it is probably a little slower the second half of this year than the first in telecom infrastructure. A lot happened over the last
few years; that has slowed down a bit. Again nothing -- it is not a rapid decline or anything, but definitely seeing a slowdown there.
And the balance of the markets are kind of following global demand.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
It seems to be more inventory, I would say, because the trends for us through the channel on point-of-sale -- you know, the sellout are
better than the sell-in, which is definitely a reflection of inventory adjustments. So I would say most of it appears to be inventory right
now. I think we all expect once we get through that to get back into growth.
 
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Our guidance reflects that optimism, cautious optimism. I wouldn't say it is highly confident optimism, but cautious optimism based on
the trends we see right now.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
Yes, I am extremely pleased with our progress in the electronic distribution channel. Very pleased.
I speak regularly with my peers there. I think we are working together better than we ever have. Thanks for the question.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
No, our strategy remains the same, that we want to continue to strengthen our position. Most of our focus is through products, but
largely also in markets if we don't have the right market position. And our priorities continue to be around industrial and energy and
commercial there. So this doesn't change our strategy at all.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
It will extend through Q2 is our current estimate.
 
Tom Lynch TE Connectivity Ltd. - CEO
If it plays out as we think, by the second half of Q2 we will see evidence that it is over.
 