Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Thanks, Jake, and good morning everyone. On today's call, I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter and discuss some
strategic highlights. Tom will then provide you with a more detailed review of our financial performance, including details of our product
line and geographic revenue mix and then finally our outlook for 2013.
So beginning with our financial highlights, building upon the momentum generated over the last two years, the first quarter of  was
another very solid quarter for Teleflex, with revenues reaching approximately $412 million. This represents an increase of 8.2% versus the
prior year quarter on both an as reported and constant currency basis. When adjusting for the impact of two fewer shipping days we had
this quarter, our constant currency revenue growth would have been even higher, totaling approximately 10.5% increase.
Turning to adjusted gross and operating margins, they were 48.8% and 14.7% respectively. This represents a year over year improvement
of  basis points at the gross margin line, but a decline of  basis points at the operating margin line. Year over year gross margin
improvement was primarily due to the mixed benefit of higher margin LMA product sales, as well as a continued benefit we are seeing
from price increases. And while in line with our internal expectations, the decline in year over year adjusted operating margin was due to
the inclusion of the medical device excise tax and expenses associated with businesses that were acquired after the first quarter of 
that were not in our prior year results.
 
I'm pleased to say that despite operating in what is a more difficult macro environment, as well as dealing with headwinds such as two
fewer shipping days, the medical device excise tax, and the impact of our convertible notes on our weighted average shares calculation
due to the appreciation of our stock price, the company was still able to generate adjusted earnings per share of $1.03 representing an
increase of 4% over the prior year period.
Let's now move to some of the strategic highlights for the quarter. During the first quarter, the average selling prices of our products
continued to expand marking the seventh consecutive quarter that the company has been able to attain positive year over year pricing.
And while at slightly lower levels than we've seen recently, this quarter pricing contributed  basis points in revenue growth. Our Latin
American businesses led the way up  basis points. That was followed by our Asian businesses, which achieved price improvements of
 basis points. Next was our North American business which was up  basis points. And finally, our European business experienced a
slight decline in average selling prices that total approximately  basis points. This marks a reversal in the positive pricing trend we had
seen out of Europe during the course of 2012.
During the first quarter of  a few competitors were particularly aggressive in the pricing of some tenders. We are monitoring this
situation and want to take a balanced approach towards trying to increase price without giving up future volume in some European
countries. As far as our outlook on pricing is concerned, from an overall company perspective, we expect pricing to moderately improve
for the remainder of the year from the levels we saw during the first quarter of 2013.
Moving to R&D investment and the sales of recently introduced products. In this past quarter, the company continued to make progress
with our internal product development efforts. R&D spending was up 30%, or  basis points, from the prior year quarter. From this
investment came newly introduced products which contributed  basis points of revenue growth for the quarter. New product sales
were most significant in Europe, led by sales that were customized-ask product offering.
In addition to new product revenue, we also recently received several market clearances from the FDA. One of the more notable ones was
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So we began to see some more competitive pricing show up on European tenders and we gave our European managers the flexibility to
be able to respond to that. I think our overarching goal with pricing, not just this year but really for the next several years, is to push our
pricing to the extent that we can without putting volume at risk. So we wanted to be responsive to some of those tenders that were
coming in in Europe.
The second area which also had an impact on it was we were in the midst of a changeover of our general manager in Japan. We had a
significant price increase scheduled on the calendar for Japan, didn't want to go through that without a manager -- without the new
manager in place there. So we expect to move forward on that. And our current expectation is that we'll see some improvement overall --
in our overall pricing through the balance of the year.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Yes. So we started off this year in the -- in the expectation of about  basis points. We think that's going to be a little bit more difficult
to get to because of the situation in Europe right now. So I think we expect somewhere in the  basis point range right now from what
we can tell. But again, our key goal here is to be -- continue to be competitive in the marketplace as well.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
I'll let Tom take care of that question first and then I'll get back to you on the revenue number.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So getting to the revenue projections, as I mentioned in my remarks, just accounting for the extra two days would have brought both our
constant currency and as-reported revenue up above that 10.5% number. It was just a series of one-time events that contributed
probably to another  basis points. So I think that the run rate for revenue taking those things out of -- or putting it into context, would
have been about 11% number, which from our perspective put us where we felt we needed to be first quarter. I would remind you that we
were of the opinion that the first half of this year was going to be a little bit less favorable comparisons than the second half.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Good morning.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So I think the numbers that we have used and have been consistent around have been $0.35 to $0.40 accretion this year. I would say that
we feel quite comfortable that those numbers are going to be attained. There is some puts and takes in some other parts of the P&L that
would lead us to probably kind of keep that expectation corralled and around that range still. Most of the things that have been
happening up to this point that are ahead of schedule actually affect moving forward some of the accretion in  into 2014. So we
would expect to see most of the accretion that we have been planning in  to roll into 2014. So instead of $0.15 in 2014, we think it's
going to be closer to $0.30 in 2014. And that's where the biggest sort of ahead of schedule kind of comments really apply as opposed to
this year.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Addressing the organic growth numbers -- again without trying to get too much into the weeds, there were a number of kind of unique
situations first quarter. For instance, in OEM sales, we actually had a decline of 1% in revenue versus their typical 3% to 5% revenue
growth. A lot of that had to do with a Pvax back order last year which elevated their sales growth for the first half of the year. They were
responding to that back order, which shows up as an unfavorable comparison this year to last year. And without trying to go through all
of those, there's sort of five or six things that fall into that kind of bucket that have a more negative effect and go aren't likely to persist.
There has been a fair amount of conversation about decreased utilization. And again, I think this affects us less than other competitors.
But where that happened in the first quarter was a relatively precipitous decline in position calls. And our experience here is that does
tend to have an immediate impact and then usually what happens is there's an increase in acuity three to six months down the road. It's
an area where we're watching pretty closely, but we would expect to see that mitigate quite a bit by the end of the year. There's only a
certain amount of time you can postpone the kind of conditions where most of our products are used in.
We also will continue new product launches throughout the balance of the year. And again, expect some -- expect some modest
improvements in pricing. But I would say on that point, we are moving very aggressively into longer term gross margin improvements
that are not revenue-dependent and are not pricing-dependent. I think we're taking a pretty conservative view of the market and overall
aren't anticipating an uptick in the macro conditions to get the improvement we're trying to get at.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Yes. So that's -- I would say the answer to that, Matt, is we don't necessarily see this as a linear progression. There are different kinds of
opportunities that present themselves to us, and a lot of these have to do with our pushing margins in some of the areas where we still
use distributors. So because it's at 55% this quarter doesn't necessarily mean we're projecting it to stay at that level as we look over the
next couple of years. But I would say it would take a fairly significant change in our pricing assumptions to start to have much of an
impact of what we expect to be our overall gross margin improvements over the next three years.
And those gross margin improvements will start to provide, I think, more clarity as the year rolls out. But we now start to get into the
phase where they are less revenue-dependent and less pricing-dependent and really just a matter of execution in terms of our
consolidation of our manufacturing footprint.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So I think probably the geography that we continue to monitor most closely is Europe. I think it's fair to say that the economic situation in
Europe does not appear to be getting any better during the course of the year, so we have -- we have, I think, somewhat scaled down our
pricing expectations in Europe. Other aspects of our business in Europe are actually doing quite well. So that's probably the area where
we just are monitoring it quite closely.
We believe that if there was some good news in this, it's that the apparent downfall in the utilization rates have, even though we think we
have got some immunity from that, have caused us to take a very, very close look at our spending and planned spending for the balance
of the year. So we think we have some pretty good visibility in terms of how we would adjust our operations based on if the market turns
out to be more conservative than we think we're going to be.
So I guess the short answer is probably Europe is the biggest area where we have some concern about continuing volatility there. We
think we've got a pretty good understanding. We've got good European managers on the ground. But it remains an area for us that we
have, I think, are watching more closely than other places.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So I think there's just an ongoing prioritization basis of which projects make the most sense for us to continue. We don't expect
significant revenue contributions out of Semprus or out of Hotspur until mid-2014. We are continuing to spend on both those projects as
per plan. The -- some of the shortfall in spending really came out of some internal R&D projects that -- for a variety of reasons became
lower priorities for us.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So we don't attribute any of our slowdown to competitive share losses. There is a couple of different things going on here. There is
relatively slow capital markets in the US and in Europe, accompanied by relatively brisk capital markets in China, for the pumps and
sales. It appears that the Shock II trial has had an impact on balloon utilization in Germany. So far it's largely contained to Germany. The
results of that trial were more negative than most people's expectations about the effect of the use of balloons. There's a lot of questions
about whether the control group was a good representation. But so far, Germany has been the only noticeable place that seems to have
been -- that seems to have changed there their practice or utilization of balloons as a result of that study.
So there's a couple of things going on there. But I'm at least not aware that we lost any pump accounts or lost any balloon accounts to
competitive activity that would have been the reason for the comparative slowdown.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So the -- I would say that generally speaking this year, our capital allocation thinking is quite similar to what it was last year. You could
expect to see some continued efforts in acquisitions this year in the late-stage technology area primarily. We are continuing to look at the
best way to manage and deal with the dilution issue. The big complication there, I think, from our perspective is that the end result is
much different than how we're reporting it on a quarter, and we're trying understand how we can do a better job explaining that.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Good morning.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So the most direct way that I can answer that is we've tried to filter through what first quarter would have looked like without some of
these extraneous events and without the two days' loss of shipping days. And have factored that into our reforecasting of what the
balance of the year looks like. And I think across most of our product line, we're relatively comfortable that the forecasts that have been
resubmitted are quite in line with what we see as sort of average daily order rate moving forward.
There are a couple of areas that are dependent on improvements in the vascular business in particular. We expect to see continued
growth in the PICC line and in the DPS number. We expect the JACC product to start to take off as a product line for us. So I would say if
you ask me to quantify the biggest risk, it really has to do with some every the acceptance of some of the new products that we're
introducing during the course of the year versus concern about the underlying kind of market utilization rates. And again, I don't want to
say we're completely immune from it, but we do not see that that has been a big factor in our first quarter results.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
No. Right now that represents the costs of operating duplicate centers until we're out of that, and our expectation is we're out of that
early in the third quarter. So most of those costs should disappear.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
We can.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
Yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
So there's a mix of answers to that question. Some of the accounts that have recently converted have -- were encouraged to convert early
with the expectation that they would get some assistance with moving into the new pump. Our general expectation is we'll not do that
across the board. It depends really on the discussion with the individual account.
From a -- purely from a functional standpoint, the existing units in the field work well. To a certain extent, we'd like to get some of those
back at the hospitals because they work well in a trial situation, as they're just testing out the general technology. So there's a little bit of
a mixed answer to that based on the circumstances that have been discussed with accounts as they've been converting.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, CEO
We looked at that, and the answer we came back with was no. The biggest single factor for us was just the two less shipping days. I think
you could make an argument that the fact that the last day of the month fell on a holiday, had some negative influence. But when we
looked at order patterns the first couple of days of April, we didn't see that as a big factor.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
Thanks Jake, and Good morning, everyone. Similar to our other calls, I will begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter
and discuss some strategic highlights. Tom will then provide you with a more detailed review of our financial performance, including
details of our product line and geographic revenue mix, and then finally our outlook for 2013.
So beginning with our financial highlights, second quarter  revenue was approximately $420 million. This represents an increase of
9.6% versus the prior-year quarter on both an as-reported and constant currency basis. We saw both a year-over-year and sequential
improvement in pricing, as well as from the contribution of recently-introduced products to the market. In addition, LMA continued to
contribute meaningfully to our top-line growth, adding approximately 8.5% of constant currency revenue growth in the quarter. From an
overall Teleflex portfolio perspective, we continued to see the impact of negative hospital and physician office trends on a year-over-year
basis. Our current internal estimate has hospital utilization rates down approximately 3% for the first half of  versus 2% growth for
the full year of 2012.
In 2012, the combination of share gains, price, and new product introductions provided an additional 3% growth on top of the 2%
 
utilization growth, for total Teleflex growth of approximately 5%. This year, the combination of share gains, price, and new product
introductions is generating approximately a 4% improvement. However, through the first half of 2013, the negative 3% utilization
number is reducing this to approximately 1%. Past data shows that utilization rates eventually rebound, and almost always within 6- to
12-month time frame. Given the basic underlying demographics, it's hard to construct a scenario where that won't happen in this case.
When exactly that will happen is harder to predict. So we are assuming that the current trends will continue for the balance of the year.
That assumption is causing us to reduce our revenue constant currency guidance range by 1% on both the top and bottom of the range.
As such, our new range calls for constant currency revenue growth of between 10% to 12% for 2013. Hitting that range will require
improved revenue performance over the last half of the year, and Tom will provide some additional details that describe where that
improvement is coming from. In spite of a softer revenue picture, we are not lowering our adjusted EPS guidance. By the way, this would
be the case even without the adjustments we are making in accounting for the dilution of our convertible notes. Improved gross margins,
strong OpEx control, and improved operating margins are all helping to compensate for the slight reduction in revenue.
Turning to adjusted gross and operating margins, they were 49.8% and 17%, respectively. Adjusted gross margin improved  basis
points versus the prior-year quarter. In addition, it was up  basis points from the first quarter of 2013. And I'm pleased to say that the
gross margin levels reached this quarter were the highest ever attained by the Company as a pure play medical device enterprise.
Year-over-year gross margin improvement was primarily due to the mix benefit of higher margin LMA product sales, as well as the
continued benefit we are seeing from price increases.
Operating margins also moved in a positive direction in the quarter, increasing approximately  basis points from the first quarter of
2013. And while the adjusted operating margin was flat when compared to the second quarter of 2012, it's important to understand that
the prior year's amount did not include the medical device excise tax, as well as many of the expenses associated with businesses that
were acquired during the course of 2012. This takes us to adjusted earnings per share, which were $1.27 for the quarter, up 3.3% versus
the prior year. And while Tom will go through the mechanics behind this in more detail during his prepared remarks, I do want to point
out that we decided to make a change in how we calculate adjusted earnings per share.
The change in methodology is related to the impact that our convertible notes have on our weighted average share count. This
adjustment increased the Company's adjusted earnings per share by $0.04 in the second quarter and $0.07 for the first six months of
2013. The change in methodology did not have any impact on the previously-reported adjusted earnings per share figures for the second
quarter and six-month period of 2012. The rationale behind making the change is that the Company believes that reflecting the
anti-dilutive impact of the convertible note hedge agreements is more representative of the economic reality that would occur upon
maturity of the convertible notes. And this presentation is not atypical for companies with similar circumstances.
Let's move now to some of the strategic highlights for the quarter. During the second quarter, the average selling prices of our products
expanded, both when compared against prior years as well as versus the first quarter of 2013. Our Latin American business led the way,
up almost  basis points. That was followed by North America business, which achieved price improvements of  basis points.
Reversing the negative trend in pricing that we experienced in the first quarter of 2013, our European markets saw pricing improved
approximately  basis points. Finally, our Asian businesses experienced a slight decline in average selling prices that total
approximately  basis points. A slight improvement came from Japan, but that was offset by a decline in pricing coming from China.
Based on our second quarter pricing results, our outlook remains unchanged from what we said on our last earnings call, and we
continue to expect  basis points of improvement. We also remain confident in our longer-term pricing assumptions as part of our
margin enhancement programs.
Moving to R&D investment and the sales of recently introduced products. Similar to the past few quarters, the Company continued to
make progress on internal product development efforts. R&D spending was up 21%, or  basis points from the prior year quarter. From
this investment came newly-introduced products which contributed  basis points of revenue growth. This was led by an increased sale
of our ArrowADVANTAGE5, ArrowEVOLUTION, and customized European ASK product offerings. In addition, we also saw an increase in
revenue associated with newly-launched regional anesthesia products. Finally, we received several market clearances from the FDA and
launched several products towards the end of the quarter that we expect to positively impact our second half of  results.
 
Some of the more notable regulatory approvals obtained were the 510(k) and CE Mark approvals that were received on our Arrow
GPSCath balloon dilation catheter. This product enables multiple vascular procedures to be performed with one dual-function catheter,
which will potentially reduce both procedure time and expense. This product combines angioplasty and our proprietary VisioValve
injection system, allowing physicians to perform high-pressure angioplasty and inject physician-specified fluids while maintaining guide
wire position. This product is expected to launch during the third quarter of 2013, and it comes from the Hotspur acquisition we closed
last year. Another recent 510(k) was received on our Arrow NextStep retrograde femoral length dialysis catheters, designed for clinician
ease of insertion and to take better advantage of the blood flow dynamics within the heart through its unique reverse port configuration,
these products are also expected to launch during the third quarter.
Moving to some products that were launched at the end of the second quarter, the Rusch TruLite laryngoscope system provides a
disposable blade and handle designed for single-patient use. It features an LED lighting technology and addresses clinician concerns
regarding potential risk of patient cross-contamination as well as the cost associated with maintaining reusable laryngoscopes. And
before I move on and provide you with an update on LMA, the last new product launch that I would like to call you attention to is that of
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
The overall answer, really, is we have an additional day in the back half, and we have some new products that have already been
launched in the first half that start to contribute. I'll turn it over to Tom to give you some more specifics around those points.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So our operational income expectations right now are exactly the same place they were when we issued our guidance. So we expect
operational performance to come in at exactly the same number. There is a modest benefit that comes from the adjustment that we're
making, but not enough to take us outside the range.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
I will repeat a comment I made last quarter, and is that the underlying instructions that each of our regions have is not to be aggressive
with price to the point that it puts volume at risk. In this particular quarter, the -- most of the pricing decline that came in China came
from a decision to lower the price on a clip applicator so that we would get those placed in more hospitals and sell more clips. We took
the hit on price for the applicators, but we'll see the revenue in future quarters come in from the clips. So the -- and I use that as an
example. Most of these changes in our estimates from quarter to quarter are really around very unique circumstances. Last quarter it
happened to be Europe. We were able to recover relatively nicely in Europe in a quarter. And I would say the same thing is true as we look
to the last half of the year in Asia. We expect improved pricing in Asia to come out. As I said last quarter, as we move further into next
year, more and more of our pricing comes from increasing prices to distributors as opposed to end users, and we have a high level of
confidence of being able to achieve that.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
That's a good question, and I would say we have no magic crystal ball. Personally, over the last four weeks, I visited with most of the
largest GPOs in the United States, and I would say they don't have a good explanation for the lower utilization trends. They were
surprised as much as anyone else. So, I can't say that we know for sure what's going to happen, whether they're going improve, or that
anybody else knows they're not going to decline. The best we can do is really peg our growth rates on top of what we think the utilization
rates are likely to be at this point in time. They've been relatively consistent at that minus 3% level throughout the year. So, that's the
core that's driving that assumption, but we don't have the magic crystal ball here to be able to say for sure what's going to happen to
utilization rates.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So I think right now, Kayla, I think we're approximately still seeing the same type of pull-through on additional PICC revenue that we
have stated in the past. I believe that our prior statements referred to somewhere around, call it, a 30% or so pull-through rate on
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So I will take a stab at this. The biggest, I think, improvement that we could make in our product offering over the next six months is the
ability to package our stylet with our antimicrobial and antithrombogenic PICC. Right now, there's some product modifications that we
need to undergo so that the stylet will fit comfortably within that product. So right now, the very best PICC we have that's receiving some
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So I would say the best answer to that, Larry, is what you've seen from us over the past two years is what you can probably expect at least
over the next year and a half. We still see some very attractive technology additions that we can make, Eon Surgical being a good
example of something that occurred this quarter. And we've got some other things that we're looking at during the balance of the year,
and we remain quite alert to other LMA-type opportunities. It's very hard to predict whether they materialize or not, but our appetite for
that remains pretty consistent with what it has been over the last two years.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
I would say we're well on track, certainly in -- for 2013, where we expected to be. And as we've indicated, we're performing a little ahead
of that, and actually expect that trend to continue. At this point, we're still in the process of quantifying some of the  accretion and
still have the opinion that it is going to be higher than what we initially thought of it, because some things are moving a little faster than
what we had in our planning process. So I guess the bottom line is my remarks remain unchanged from what they were on the last
quarter's call.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So the short answer to that question, Chris, is really no. The majority of the improvement that we needed to make to get to those
longer term gross margin numbers and operating margin numbers are not particularly revenue-sensitive. They have more to do with
changes that we're making in our operational footprint. And again, are not appreciably revenue-dependent. Now, more revenue helps,
but we don't expect utilization softness to be an interference with our ability to make those improvements. And excuse me, I forgot the
second half of your question.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
As an overall statement, I would say I feel a greater sense of confidence in our ability to get there just based on the details and issues that
have been addressed. We've been putting more and more meat on the bones in terms of exactly how we're going to get there and what
the timetable is. So if anything has happened in the confidence factor in our getting there, it's gone up as opposed to gone down over the
last quarter.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes, so there are different drivers there. OEM benefited last year considerably by a P-back shortage. We happened to have it on hand,
and that resulted in a lot of orders for those products well in advance of our end customer's real need. So it was a benefit to us last year,
probably inflated the OEM number somewhat last year, and this year, simply as a comparison this year to last year, it looks negative.
Now, on top of that, there is some softness in our end customers' utilization rates for some products that is contributing to that a little
bit, and that's really due to some utilization decline. Our expectation is that most of that P-backs issue is behind us, and as we look at the
balance for the year, it is going to be more favorable.
Respiratory therapy is perhaps one of the products that is generally used by lots of hospital patients, and that probably has had a greater
impact from downward trends in utilization than other product areas. In fact, if you look at our surgical numbers, they're up quite nicely,
so where we've gotten products in really strong niches that are non-postponable, we continue to see good growth out of those segments.
So those are the answer for respiratory and OEM.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So Jim, I think it was just a slight reduction there from the initial expectations, once we looked at it as part of the re-forecast process, but
nothing material there.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President & CEO
So we expect a good gross margin improvement in the LMA product line, yes, and I can't be more specific about the details than that.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Thanks, Jake, and good morning, everyone. Similar to other calls, I will take us through an overview of the results for the quarter and
discuss some highlights. But first, I want to address some questions that, I believe, may be on some of your minds. In particular, I will
provide some detail regarding our signed agreement to acquire Vidacare Corporation. We are excited about this addition to our product
portfolio, and want to share our rationale, as well as our expectations. I will discuss this after I review the quarter's highlights.
Secondly, I want to provide some commentary around why we are lowering our revenue expectations for the year, especially in light of
positive results during the third quarter.
Thirdly, does our lower revenue guidance for the fourth quarter have any impact on our  growth expectations?
And lastly, has anything happened in the third quarter which changes our thinking about either the achievement or the timing of our
margin expansion goals?
The answer to the last question is no. We continue to make very good progress in the planning process and expect to provide much more
visibility into the details at our upcoming analyst meeting in December.
Regarding our revenue guidance, after the second quarter call, I was asked many times at various investor meetings why we didn't take
an even more conservative posture. It was quite clear, I think, to many people, that in order to hit our guidance for 2013, we would have a
 
steep uphill climb for the second half of the year. However, a number of discrete elements led us to believe this was possible and we
enumerated those on the last call.
We were also influenced by what appeared to be a strong order trend in July, and we expected resolution to certain dealer negotiations
that would also have had a positive revenue impact in the fourth quarter. However, the order trend, while it was much improved over the
first half, was not quite as strong as we expected and sufficient to get us to our guidance levels in light of other factors that happened.
In particular, let me share some of those details about the other factors. Today, as we look ahead into the fourth quarter, we do not see
any signs yet of a strong flu season similar to last year's fourth quarter, and that is likely to result in unfavorable comparisons in our
respiratory therapy business. And while our dealer negotiations are making good progress, the timing will not result in any significant
improvement in the fourth quarter.
Generally, our other underlying business trends are quite positive. As a result, while there will be some negative impact this year, we do
not expect that these circumstances will alter our growth expectations for 2014.
We expect our OEM business, which has been in negative territory all year, to be back in positive territory by the first quarter next year. In
addition, we expect that our respiratory therapy year-over-year revenue comparisons will be much more favorable in  compared to
2013. And we have every reason to expect that our agent-dealer negotiations will be concluded successfully.
This, coupled with our positive trends in our other product lines, leaves our  growth expectations intact. Naturally, we'll provide more
substantive information at our New York analyst meeting in December, when we release our  guidance.
So with that overview, let's begin with our third quarter highlights. Overall, the third quarter was a good quarter for Teleflex. Revenue
this quarter totaled $413.8 million. This represented an increase of 11.6% versus the prior year on a constant-currency basis, and 12.4% as
reported. Revenue growth continued to be driven by our pricing initiatives, as well as from the introduction of new products to the
marketplace. In addition, LMA continues to contribute meaningfully to our top and bottom line growth.
While from an adjusted earnings standpoint of view, the company achieved $1.33 this quarter, representing an increase of almost 27%
versus the prior year, the earnings growth in the quarter primarily came from improvements in our gross margin, as well as some cost
containment initiatives. And while Teleflex's longer-term success and operating margin expansion is becoming less and less dependent
on pricing and revenue growth, I know that many people in the investment community continue to be interested in the sustainability of
our pricing initiatives.
During the third quarter, the average selling prices of our products once again expanded, both when compared against prior year, as well
as when compared against the first and second quarters of 2013. This past quarter, the improved average selling prices of products
contributed approximately  basis points of revenue growth.
Thanks to a distributor-to-direct conversion in South Africa that occurred during the second quarter of the year, our European business
saw an improvement in pricing of  basis points. However, even without that, Europe had an improvement of  basis points. That was
followed by increases in the Americas, which generated a  basis point improvement, and Asia, which saw its prices increase  basis
points. Finally, our OEM business experienced a slight decline in the average selling prices of products that totaled  basis points.
I'm pleased to say, however, that the price improvements we have been able to generate have not come at the expense of losing
longer-term GPO and IDN contracts. In fact, during this past quarter, Teleflex won a total of  agreements. Nine of those awards were
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
I think it's somewhere between those goalposts. I think our current view of the macro-environment is that it's stablizing but not
necessarily improving in terms of physician visits and hospital visitations. I think we still see some confusion in terms of what the impact
of the Affordable Care Act is likely to be in the short term.
Looking at where the villains are this year, and in the Teleflex portfolio, it is primarily our respiratory therapy business, our OEM business,
and our cardiac care business. Specifically, I think we feel quite optimistic that the OEM business is likely to see a good turn around and
be in positive territory next year, so that drag will be eliminated. We are starting to see some encouraging green shoots around our
cardiac care business with some new accounts that we've won, and the introduction of the Hotspur balloon into that product line.
 
The respiratory therapy business is likely to remain our most challenged business in terms of the overall macro-environment. But as I
mentioned earlier at least the comparisons between  and  are sounds likely to be more favorable. I think we'll see an uptick of
where we are this year, and I think we're likely to take a bit of a conservative view though with some of the uncertainty in terms of our
planning and our guidance for 2014.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Yes, so Vidacare has been growing, our estimate has Vidacare has been growing in the mid-teens. They've certainly had a couple of
recent years that have been higher than that as a result of dealer to direct conversions. We sort of stripped that out in our own model as
one-time events.
Speaking a little bit about the rationale, there is a couple of really good points we like about this. First of all, they have just really started
the process and are seeing quite good growth rates in the hospital segment as well. So we think this is a really good addition to our
vascular sales effort in the hospital. It gives us a broader product portfolio, and so it's certainly a plus for us from that perspective.
With the acquisition of LMA, that is a product line that is also used in the ambulance segment, and personally Teleflex was somewhat
under-represented in that space, and so the -- about a third of Vidacare's business is in that hospital environment. This will allow us to
have better coverage and better presence in that segment.
And then the bone marrow product lines are one that was a bit neglected in the Vidacare portfolio. They have just recently started paying
more selling attention to that product line, and we think that's going to be a great product in the interventional radiology space.
Lastly, I would just say we see there is considerable opportunity for expansion over the next several years in the Asian market in
particular. So it's more of a growth play than LMA was, but there's still good synergies that we'll get out of the acquisition.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
So let me address the OEM circumstance first. This year we had a higher number of contracts with outside customers that were ending,
and the customers had an opportunity to take that business in house, and due to some of their own economic pressures, decided to do
that. I think we've got pretty good visibility in terms of what that is going to look like in 2014, and pretty good visibility in terms of projects
that we have been working on this year that will be commercialized by our outside customers next year. It is, I would say, among the rest
of our businesses, the most subject to some volatility from year to year based on what's going on with some of the outside customers. If
we look back to 2012, they were in the growth rate of about plus 10%. This year its closer to minus 10%. Next year we think it's going to be
up at least in the mid-single digits.
I think we've got pretty good visibility in terms of what that is going to look like, and this late in the year the orders coming in are for next
year. So I think we have a pretty good sense of comfort about the OEM business.
The respiratory therapy business is a business that is more subject than most of our other businesses to ups and downs in procedures
and admissions. I think it is a more challenged business from the standpoint of our overall gross margins. We expect some fairly
substantial improvement in those gross margins as a result of our footprint consolidation, and I think as we look at our overall product
portfolio it's a business that's under review pretty constantly.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
We can.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
No, it continues to remain a confined to Germany, and our expectation is that unless there's several other studies that confirm the shock
to trial results it's unlikely to affect clinical practice outside of that area, that's what we've seen so far.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Yes, so, a good bit of our effort in the third quarter revolved around the introduction of the new console, and most of that was directed at
existing accounts that were using first generation equipment that was out there, and they had converted to it with the anticipation of
moving to the new console when it was available. So that that consumed a fair amount of selling time during the third quarter. Now that
time has shifted over to new accounts, and we follow that pretty closely in terms of where the interest level is. And as I mentioned in my
prepared remarks, indications look quite promising for a relatively robust quarter in terms of count conversions. Was there another part
to your question?
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Yes, so actually we continue to see encouraging PICC pull through. We saw a noticeable increase in our anti-microbial,
anti-thrombogenic PICC from accounts outside of the VasoNova realm, and our effort here is to really get that product packaged with a
pre-packaged with a VasoNova stylet as soon as we can because of the interest in the anti-microbial/anti-thrombogenic features.
Lastly, we are starting to see some initial use of VasoNova with CVC catheters, and that's an encouraging sign.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
One of the things that I think the LMA integration, particularly in the field, went so well was that a lot of revenue on a product line basis
associated with essentially one product, and our observation was that that's much easier to integrate into particularly your selling and
marketing organizations that don't have  new products to be able to learn.
Also what helped was that the LMA sales force that came with it was very clinically oriented, and were able to quickly pick up the
technical assimilation of the rest of the vascular line. From that point, we see some real similarities in Vidacare -- 80% of their business
plus is in that EZ-IO product line. It is a clinically driven product that from what we have learned about their sales force, they're very
confident and comfortable in terms of walking in and talking with clinicians. We think a lot of same factors that help LMA be a good
integration for us we are likely to see with the Vidacare line.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
So for  I'm going to say it's unlikely that we would do another Vidacare or LMA-size acquisition. The only caveat I would give to that
is acquisitions tend to be somewhat opportunistic. We probably wouldn't have done Vidacare as soon as we did, except we had been
following this property for some period of time, and the time seemed right for them to think about selling it.
So we don't necessarily have an acquisition of that size planned. It's possible. I think the more likely scenario is you're going to see a
continuation of some of these smaller technology and smaller product acquisition, late-stage technology acquisitions.
We're just going through the process, actually, of revisiting what our capital allocation strategy going to emerge for  and 2015, and
again I think we'll be able to provide additional insight at the analyst meeting in December.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
I think we're going to see more of the same, if not, a modest uptick.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
The gross margins are 85%, and until we actually close the transaction we're not ready to go into some of the operational synergies that
might occur and Vidacare's current P&L would be certainly substantially different as a result of integrating the sales organizations.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
About two-thirds of the revenue currently is in the United States, and about a third of it is, giving you rough numbers here, a third of it is
outside of the United States. They have really just gun the process of taking over their dealer, their international dealer operations into a
more of a direct posture. We actually expect that the international sales provide a robust opportunity for improved revenue growth over
the next couple of years. They just recently were awarded clearance for the product in Japan. They're going through the process of
getting some reimbursement and acceptance, clinical acceptance in the product. They're halfway through the process of getting it
licensed and approved in China. So one of the things that I think we really bring to the picture is a very sophisticated international
operation that can take advantage of the product's capabilities and markets they have not yet penetrated.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
The latest conversations that I've had from a variety of providers and GPOs, I would say, and just to echo my remarks in my script, it
appears that there's not continuing erosion, I would say that it looks from our vantage point at this point is that I would describe as
 
stabilization in office visits and hospital procedures. We are seeing considerable cost reduction efforts on the part of certainly some of our
largest customers. I think that there's a growing concern about what the actually impact of the Affordable Care Act is going to be in
terms of what's the mix of patients they're going to see, are they all Medicaid patients, and I think they are at least preparing for
continued cost pressure in the United States. As we move to Europe I think we're seeing, again, the erosion appears to have stopped, and
I would say our viewpoint for  is a modest uptick in Europe.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
We can, Jim.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Yes, we're going to hold the line and keep any discussion about synergies and integration until after the closing. And in fairness, we're
just having our first integration meetings with the folks at Vidacare, and we're approaching this with a bit of an open mind in terms of
what this is going is look like. We've been very impressed with the folks we've met at Vidacare, and are interested in capitalizing on their
talent pool as much as we possibly can.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
We began shipping out of the North American distribution center really earlier this year. Nearly all of the product was transferred to that
location during the third quarter. We expect this to be back in the black by the fourth quarter. We expected it to be back in the black by
the third quarter. We did have some additional temporary labor expenses that were responsible for some of the as we described earlier
one-time events affecting our gross margin. Those appear to be behind us. I do believe we'll see the full benefit that in 2014. So that's
slightly behind in terms of the timing, but we are I think overall really pleased with the whole transition from three into one distribution
centers.
And I forget was there another part to that question?
 
Benson Smith Teleflex - President, Chairman, CEO
Okay.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Thanks, Jake, and good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to be with you once again and, similar to other calls, I'll begin with an overview
of the Company's results and discuss some highlights.
Let's begin with revenue. Fourth-quarter revenue performance was strong and ahead of our expectations, totaling $450.5 million. This
represented an increase of 6.9% versus the prior year on a constant-currency basis. The better-than-expected revenue performance
occurred across several of our product lines and geographic regions, as we experienced strong sales during the last two weeks of
December.
Revenue growth in the quarter continued to be driven by LMA, as well as from the introduction of new products to the marketplace, and
 
our pricing initiatives. In addition, fourth-quarter revenue was also aided by the acquisition of Vidacare. I am pleased to say that the
initial stages of the Vidacare integration have gone quite well. And the Vidacare product line's revenue performance in the quarter also
came in ahead of our expectations. We continue to be quite excited about this acquisition, and it is our belief that Vidacare has excellent
growth potential in the future.
But before I move on to other highlights in the quarter, I do want to address a couple of questions that I suspect are at least on some of
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Good morning, David.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So just relative to US utilization rates, there is some indication that there was somewhat of a rush to get procedures taken care of
towards the end of the year. It looks to us like the best explanation of that was concern about what was going to happen to either
people's deductibles or to their overall policies as they approached the new year. There's some indication that there's going to be
perhaps some retraction I think in utilization I think the first couple of months as a result of the issues relative to people's insurance
coverage sorting themselves out.
That, although could have been a part of our December results, we don't believe it was a significant part. And again, relative to the US,
we had already trimmed back our revenue estimates for the first half of the year, assuming some confusion around insurance. So that
singly really isn't changing our viewpoint of what the first half of the year's going to look like. And in fact, we didn't see anything out of
the ordinary in January that would suggest that's the case, and January results were right in line with our expectations.
The bigger driver really for the unexpected overperformance in December had to do with back order reduction in part, and the biggest
thing I mentioned in my remarks was that European customer kind of having quite heavy orders in the last week of the year.
But once again, I would say when we looked at January results, that does not seem to have come at the expense of January results. So I
would say we're pretty optimistic that even if there is some confusion in insurance coverage in the United States, that we've already
factored that into our revenue estimates.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
The biggest risk was actually tied to concluding the Australian distributorship both from a standpoint of size and when it was planned for
in the course of the year. So I would just say there are others that are projected during the course of the year. They are smaller in size and
later in the year, and so if there is some delay there, the potential that they have to negatively impact the results is quite minimal
compared to what might have happened had we not been successful in closing the Australia distributorship. There are some but I don't
think they'll have the potential of having significant impact on our  results.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
I would just add, from an overall risk perspective, I think the performance we've seen out of Vidacare, both in December and then in
January again has us feeling a lot more comfortable. And then the closure of the Australian distributorship again is another thing that's
now in the bag and locked down. I think those two events have derisked our revenue profile quite a bit for 2014.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Yes. We took a conservative view to that certainly in the first half. I would say it's probably the cloudiest part of our forecasting, how this
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So it's a number of different factors. When we acquired LMA, there's also an ambulance utilization of that product. The addition of
Vidacare to our product line really gives us a strong enough call point there to represent LMA, which was sort of a weak link in our LMA
business.
I think that the -- if you just look at the impact in hospital segment for Vascular Access, it provides another product area to talk about
 
besides CBCs and PICCs, and really enhances our strategy around putting the right product in the right patient at the right time. And
there's -- I would say there's a lot of enthusiasm about learning about that product within the hospital segment. So it's a little easier to
get into see people as a result of having that product in our bag that are also purchasers of other Vascular Access products.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So to a certain extent, Matt, our improvement in the Surgical business over the last several years has been in part due just to a revival of
attention around that product line. Post ARROW acquisition, there just wasn't much attention from a product development standpoint,
from a sales force penetration standpoint on that, and that division has made some particularly good strides in improving its sales force
effectiveness and its coverage.
EFX certainly has been a product, one of the late-stage technology acquisitions that gave them a very new, innovative product to talk
about. Our business in ligation has always been strong and I think that just additional focus on surgery has helped drive that. We are a
benefiter of robotic surgery and that's helped.
And then as I think we look forward, the inclusion of Eon Surgical in that micro-laparoscopic arena is quite exciting. We're not going to
see a lot of benefit of that in 2014. We'll start to see that show up in a much more significant way in 2015.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Our commentary just really primarily results in or stems from some confusion around people whose coverage was cancelled last year and
may not have been restored by January of this year. Our sense is to the extent that there was an uptick in December, that probably was a
bit of a rush for people to get things covered under their old plan.
As we understand the details, more people are having somewhat higher deductibles which can be a deterrent particularly early in the
year to visit that primary care physician. The latest information we have about primary care and specialist visits in January seems to be on
the downside. So it's mainly driven by some of the confusion around coverage and some of the time it may take to get that resolved for
people who intend to and want to have insurance coverage.
 
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
I think there's some safety in that estimation, yes.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So I think the near future is the phrase we've used in our script today and I think that's about as definitive as we can be at this point in
time.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So typically we don't and didn't plan to release actual sales numbers simply on a single month basis, but I'll just reiterate that it was
ahead of what we expected in December and ahead of what we expected in January.
And our viewpoint at this point is is that we certainly have a high level of confidence we're going to achieve that annual range we
provided as guidance. Should our viewpoint change in either one direction or another, we'll certainly provide that information, and it's
also our expectation at this point that we're going to achieve all the synergies that we expected to achieve during 2014.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So that calibrates to the 21% we have been guiding people to that if our gross margin is 55%, our operating margin should be in that 21%
or slightly higher number. And so this is just adding that -- the benefit of that change in accounting on top of that. It represents no real
long change in the our underlying expectation about operating margin expansion. It's just we think a more consistent way of calculating
it.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So our organic growth is probably best represented by adding our pricing increases and our new product entries. Actual volume growth
was in slightly negative territory compared to the prior quarter. And again, we think the biggest driver for that.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
We consistently have taken an opportunistic viewpoint towards acquisitions. You can't time when something that's quite attractive to you
comes along. And at the same -- by the same token, we don't feel some compulsion to have to do one in the next calendar year either.
 
We've got a pretty -- I would say that we are satisfied to the degree to which acquisitions like Vidacare and LMA have improved our
overall business portfolio, but a lot of that has come from picking very carefully acquisitions that have that potential for us. And often
acquisitions that are particularly good for us don't make as much sense to somebody else who might not be able to have the same
synergies that they're able to generate.
So the best I can tell you is over the next several years at least, I think you could expect to see more of what you've seen in the past
several years from us, which includes both some of those larger acquisitions and continued emphasis on late-stage technology
acquisitions as they become available, and some of these dealer to direct conversions.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So I think you raise a good point. And that is as that creeps up, the more cautious we are about looking at any individual property. I'll turn
over the detailed answer to that to Tom.
 
Benson Smith Teleflex Inc - Chairman, President, and CEO
So I think our consistent answer here is just as any business would, we routinely look at our overall portfolio and make strategic
assessments about those businesses that we're most interested in or less interested in in the future moving forward.
 
 