Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Thank you. Good morning. Alan Miller, our CEO is also joining us this morning. Welcome to this review of Universal Health Services'
results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012. During this conference call, Alan and I will be using words such as believes, expects,
anticipates, estimates and similar words that represent forecasts, projections and forward-looking statements. For anyone not familiar
with the risks and uncertainties inherent in these forward-looking statements, I recommend a careful reading of the Section on risk
factors and forward-looking statements and risk factors in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. We'd like to highlight
just a couple of developments and business trends before opening the call up to questions.
As discussed in our press release last night, the Company recorded net income attributable to UHS per diluted share of $1.31 for the
quarter. After adjusting for the prior year impact of several reimbursement items recorded during the quarter, our adjusted net income
attributable to UHS per diluted share for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, was $1.13. On a same facility basis revenues in our behavioral
health division increased 5.3% during the first quarter of 2012. We note that the PSI facilities are included in our same-store data for the
entire quarter.
Adjusted admissions in patient days to our behavioral health facilities owned for more than a year increased 9.2% and 2.8% respectively
during the first quarter. Revenue per adjusted patient day rose 2.4% during the first quarter of  over the comparable prior-year
quarter.
Operating margins for our behavioral health hospitals owned for more than a year increased to 26.8% during the quarter ended March
31, 2012. As compared to 26.5% during the comparable prior-year period. On a same facility basis in our acute care division, revenues
increased 0.8% during the first quarter of 2012. The increase resulted primarily from a 1.6% increase in adjusted admissions to our
hospitals owned for more than a year.
The relatively muted revenue growth reflects a difficult comparison to the prior-year quarter when our net revenues were favorably
impacted by positive changes in payer mix, especially stabilization in uninsured volumes. On a same facility basis, operating margins for
our acute hospitals decreased to 18.6% during the first quarter of 2012, from 20.5% during the first quarter of 2011. We also note that
there are no EHR-related revenues included in our quarterly financial statements.
 
Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts based on charges at established rates amounting to $315 million
and $223 million during the three-month period ended March 31,  and 2011. As a percentage of acute care net revenues, bad debts,
charity, care expense and the uninsured discount in this year's first quarter were at levels higher than those experienced during the first
quarter of 2011. However, due primarily to the increase in behavioral health revenues and the very low levels of bad debt and uninsured
discounts in that business, our overall percentage of bad debt, charity care and uninsured discounts were lower than those experienced
during the first quarter of 2011.
Our cash from operating activities was approximately $134 million during the first quarter of 2012, as compared to $183 million in the
first quarter of 2011. Our Accounts Receivable days outstanding increased to  days during the first quarter of 2012, primarily due to a
lack of Medicaid payments from the State of Illinois, and a lack of disproportionate share payments from Texas, as well as the Rural Floor
settlement recorded as a receivable during the quarter. At March 31, 2012, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 59.6%.
We spent $93 million on capital expenditures during the first quarter. Included in our capital expenditures were the construction costs
related to the ongoing construction of a new acute care hospital in Temecula, California and a new bed tower at our Wellington facility in
Florida. Effective in the first quarter of 2012, we have completed all of the divestitures required by the FTC as part of the PSI acquisition.
Alan and I would be pleased to answer your questions at this time.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - CEO
AJ, you guys did very well in the draft. You've got a first rounder in Jim Forbes.
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Thank you. Good morning. Alan Miller, our CEO, is also joining us this morning.
Welcome to this review of Universal Health Services results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012. During the conference call, Alan
and I will be using words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, and similar words that represent forecasts, projections, and
forward-looking statements. For anyone not familiar with the risks and uncertainties inherent in these forward-looking statements, I
recommend a careful reading of the section on risk factors and forward-looking statements and risk factors in our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2011, and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
We would like to highlight just a couple of developments and business trends before opening the call up to questions. As discussed in
our press release last night, the Company reported net income attributable to UHS per diluted share of $1.10 for the quarter. After
adjusting for the prior-year impact of several reimbursement items recorded during the quarter, and the revenues and expenses
associated with the implementation of electronic health records applications at our acute care hospitals, our adjusted net income
attributable to UHS per diluted share for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, was $1.12.
On a same-facility basis, revenues in our behavioral health division increased 4.1% during the second quarter of  over the
comparable prior year quarter. Adjusted admissions and patient days to our behavioral health facilities owned for more than a year
increased 3.3% and 0.2% respectively during the second quarter. Revenue per adjusted patient day rose 3.5% during the second quarter
of  over the comparable prior-year quarter. Operating margins for our behavioral health hospitals owned for more than a year
increased to 28.6% during the quarter ended June 30, 2012, as compared to 26.9% during the comparable prior-year period.
On a same-facility basis in our acute care division, revenues increased -- decreased, excuse me -- 2.2% during the second quarter of
2012. The decrease resulted primarily from a 1.3% decrease in adjusted patient admissions and a 0.9% decrease in revenue per adjusted
admission to our hospitals owned for more than a year. The revenue decline reflects a difficult comparison to the prior-year quarter,
 
when our net revenues were favorably impacted by positive changes in payer mix, especially stabilization in uninsured volumes.
On a same-facility basis, operating margins for our acute care hospitals decreased to 16.3% during the second quarter of 2012, from
17.8% during the second quarter of 2011. Our acute care hospitals provide a charity care and uninsured discounts based on charges at
established rates, amounting to $266 million and $239 million during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2012, and 2011,
respectively.
As a percentage of acute care net revenues, bad debts, charity care expense, and the uninsured discount, in this year's second quarter
we're at levels higher than those experienced during the second quarter of 2011. However, due primarily to the increase in behavioral
health revenues and the very low levels of bad debt and uninsured discounts in that business, our overall percentage of bad debt to
charity care and uninsured discounts were lower than those experienced during the second quarter of 2011.
Our cash from operating activities was approximately $246 million during the second quarter of 2012, as compared to $173 million in the
second quarter of 2011. Our accounts receivable days outstanding decreased to  days during the second quarter of  from  days
during the first quarter of this year, as we collected a portion of outstanding Medicaid receivables from the state of Illinois. At June 30,
2012, our ratio of debt-to-total capitalization was 57.7%, and debt-to-EBITDA was 2.99 times.
We spent $90 million on capital expenditures during the second quarter. Included in our capital expend expenditures during the first half
 were the construction costs related to the construction of a new acute care hospital in Temecula, California; a new bed tower at our
Wellington facility in Florida, and  beds added to facilities within our behavioral health division.
Against the backdrop of a sluggish economic recovery and based upon the operating trends and financial results experienced during the
first six months of 2012, our revised estimated range of adjusted net income attributable to UHS for the year ended December 31, 2012, is
$4.25 to $4.35 per diluted share. This revised guidance, which represents a 2% to 3% decrease from our original  guidance, excludes
the estimated favorable impact associated with the implementation of electronic health records applications at our acute care hospitals.
And the impact of the other items reflected on the supplemental schedule for the six months ended June 30, 2012, as disclosed in last
night's press release. As well as any incremental impact resulting from our previously announced acquisition of Ascend Health
Corporation, which we expect to complete during the fourth quarter of this year.
Alan and I would be pleased to answer your questions at this time.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
Yes, I thought you were going to ask about anything that is new. Nothing happens before the election, and lame ducks are difficult. We
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
In what regard?
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
You mean legislatively?
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
No, nothing. I think that it is the law, but a lot of people don't like it, and a lot is happening at the state level, as you're well aware with
regard to the Medicaid, and it is going to be a very brutal, challenging situation legislatively in Washington, regardless of who wins. I
think it's unlikely that Republicans can have a sweep of all three, house, Senate, White House. But it's going to be a really very interesting
year next year.
 
As I said, I think we're in good shape. We're in as good a shape as we can be, because of, I, think, very smart moves on the part of some of
our representatives. I don't mean legislatively, representing the different organizations. I think the administration is very strongly on our
side, for whatever good that is.
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
I think Ascend is very unusual in that the quality of it, nine facilities, every one of them is really good. There's new beds coming on.
They've been very well managed, but there's a lot of growth in it. We think Ascend was unusually good quality-wise. We're very happy
with that, very happy with it. We think we can see a lot of growth coming from it. I don't think there are networks that we know of that are
similar to Ascend. I think ascend was -- we think Ascend was just a great acquisition.
With regard to other acquisitions, we're seeing a lot. I think in this environment, it's a question of what you want to direct yourself
towards, but there's a lot of opportunities. We're going to close Ascend and move on to look at other opportunities, both acute and
behavioral. I just want to stress, I think the Ascend deal was really an excellent deal for us, unusually excellent.
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
John, you're particularly astute, and I can tell you, and I'm sure you have seen this, or you -- the industry is going through a real
transition. These things take time. It's going to be slow, but it's going to be a real transition. I think the companies that are experienced
and have been successful over a long period of time, and know how to evaluate opportunities, and are not impatient are going to do
really well.
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
I'll just say one thing. Really good opportunities are not bargain priced, so I wouldn't say that this was a bargain price. Cole Hamels just
went for $144 million. There aren't a lot of really great left-handers around, so we think Ascend was worth what we paid in the long run.
 
Alan Miller Universal Health Services Inc - Chairman & CEO
I have an announcement before everybody gets off. Hello? I have been asked by the Republican Party to host the vice presidential
nomination very, very directly after he is named. I say he, most likely a he. It's going to be at my home in Philadelphia sometime between
August  and 23.
The convention starts the 24th and, of course, the 27th, I believe that's a Monday night, is when all the confirmations are done, et cetera.
If you would like to come to Philadelphia and have a really first-hand opportunity to meet the vice presidential prospect, let Steve know.
Of course, there's a contribution involved. I will look forward to seeing some of you. It should be really a fun event.
 
Thank you, and good morning. Alan Miller our CEO is also joining us this morning. Welcome to this review of Universal Health Services
results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012. During this call, Alan and I will be using words such as believes, expects,
anticipates, estimates, and similar words that represent forecast projections and forward-looking statements. For anyone not familiar
with the risks and uncertainties inherent in these forward-looking statements, I recommend a careful reading of the section on risk
factors and forward-looking statements and risk factors in our form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and our form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2012.
We would like to highlight just a couple of developments and business trends before opening the call up to questions. As discussed in
our press release last night, the Company reported net income attributable to UHS per diluted share of $0.73 for the quarter. After
adjusting for the after tax costs of debt extinguishment recorded during the quarter and the incentive income and expenses associated
with the implementation of electronic health records applications at our acute care hospitals, our adjusted net income attributable to
UHS per diluted share for the quarter ended September 30,  was $0.91 compared to $0.86 per diluted share recorded in the third
quarter of  as calculated on the supplemental schedules included with last night's press release. On a same facility basis, revenues in
our behavioral health division increased 3.4% during the third quarter of  over the comparable prior year quarter. Adjusted
admissions and patient days to our behavioral health facilities owned for more than a year increased 2.6% and 0.7% respectively during
the third quarter.
Revenue per adjusted patient day rose 2.6% during the third quarter of  over the comparable prior year quarter. Operating margins
for our behavioral health hospitals owned for more than a year increased to 27.8% during the quarter ended September 30, 2012, as
compared to 26.5% during the comparable prior year period. On a same facility basis in our acute care division, revenues decreased 0.4%
during the third quarter of 2012. The decrease resulted primarily from a 1.7% decrease in adjusted admissions, partially offset by a 1.3%
increase in revenue per adjusted admission to our hospitals owned for more than a year. The rate of organic revenue growth was weaker
than expected, contributing to a decline in operating margins. On a same facility basis, operating margins for our acute care hospitals
decreased to 13.4% during the third-quarter of  from 14.8% during the third quarter of 2011.
Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts based on charges at established rates amounting to $259 million
and $246 million during the three-month periods ended September 30,  and  respectively. As a percentage of acute care net
 
revenues, bad debts, charity care expense, and the uninsured discount in this year's third quarter were at levels higher than those
experienced during the third quarter of 2011. However, due primarily to the increase in behavioral health revenues and the very low levels
of bad debt and uninsured discounts in that business, our overall percentage of bad debts, charity care, and uninsured discounts were
lower than those experienced during the third quarter of 2011. Our cash provided by operating activities was approximately $162 million
during the third quarter of 2012, as compared to $207 million in the third quarter of 2011. Our accounts receivable days outstanding
increased to  days during the third quarter of 2012, from  days during the third quarter of last year as we continue to have a
substantial outstanding Medicaid receivable from the State of Illinois.
At September 30, 2012, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 56.9%, and debt to EBITDA was 2.96 times. We spent $100 million
on capital expenditures during the third quarter. Included in our capital expenditures during the first nine months of  were the
construction costs related to the ongoing construction of a new hospital in Temecula, California. We opened a new bed tower at our
Wellington Hospital in West Palm Beach early in October, and expect to open a new behavioral facility in Chicago later in the quarter.
The operating trends and financial results experienced by our behavioral health facilities met our executions during the first nine months
of 2012. However, again to the backdrop of a continued sluggish economic recovery, the operating trends and financial results
experienced by our acute hospitals were below our expectations for the third quarter of 2012, and those trends are expected to continue
during the fourth quarter of this year.
Based upon our consolidated financial results experienced during the first nine months of  and most notably the results experienced
by our acute care hospitals during the third quarter of 2012, our revised estimated range of adjusted net income attributable to UHS for
the year ended December 31,  is $4 to $4.10 per diluted share. This revised guidance, which includes the EHR impact and the impact
of the other items reflected on the supplemental schedule for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, represents a decrease of
approximately 6% from the previously provided range of $4.25 to $4.35 per diluted share. The operating pressures that we continue to
experience in many of our acute care markets has increased the volatility of the financial results of our acute care hospitals, making
estimation of future results more challenging. However, we continue to actively and aggressively respond to these challenges through
strategic initiatives and operational enhancements such as physician recruitment and integration, and implementation of expense
controls and other operating efficiencies. Alan and I would be pleased to answer your questions at this time.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Thank you. Good morning. I am Steve Filton. Alan Miller, our CEO, is also joining us this morning. Welcome to this review of Universal
Health Services results for the full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2012.
During this conference call Alan and I will be using words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates and similar words that
represent forecasts, projections and forward-looking statements. For anyone not familiar with the risks and uncertainties inherent in
these forward-looking statements, I recommend a careful reading of the section on risk factors, and forward-looking statements and risk
factors in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.
We'd like to highlight just a couple of developments and business trends before opening the call up to questions. As discussed in our
press release last night, the Company recorded net income attributable to UHS per diluted share of $4.53 for the year and $1.39 for the
quarter. After adjusting for a reduction in malpractice reserves relating primarily to prior years, the gain on the sale of our Auburn facility,
and the incentive income and expenses associated with the implementation of electronic health record applications at our acute care
hospitals, our adjusted net income attributable to UHS per diluted share for the quarter ended December 31, 2012, was $1.00.
Included in the quarter is an increase to our effective tax rate due to nondeductible transaction costs related to the Ascend acquisition.
On a same facility basis, revenues in our Behavioral Health division increased 4.5% during the fourth quarter of 2012. Adjusted
admissions and patient days to our Behavioral Health facilities owned for more than a year increased 5% and 0.5%, respectively, during
the fourth quarter.
Revenue per adjusted patient day rose 4% during the fourth quarter of  over the comparable prior year quarter. We define operating
margins as operating income or net revenue less salaries, wages and benefits, other operating expenses, supplies expense, and doubtful
accounts, divided by net revenue. Operating margins for our Behavioral Health hospitals owned for more than a year increased to 27.6%
during the quarter ended December 31, 2012, as compared to 25.3% during the comparable prior year period.
As discussed in the Form 10-K we filed last night, the OIG has served a subpoena requesting various documents concerning UHS and
 
several of its behavioral facilities. At the present time, we are uncertain as to the focus, scope, or extent of the investigation, the liability
of the facilities, and/or potential financial exposure, if any, in connection with this matter.
On a same facility basis in our Acute division, revenues increased 3.1% during the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase resulted primarily
from a 1.7% increase in adjusted admissions and a 1.4% increase in revenues per adjusted admission. On a same facility basis, operating
margins for our acute hospitals and decreased to 14.4% during the fourth quarter of  from 15.5% during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts based on charges at established rates amounting to $206 million
and $248 million during the three-month periods ended December 31,  and 2011, respectively. As a percentage of acute care net
revenues, bad debts, charity care expense, and the uninsured discount in this year's fourth quarter were at levels higher than those
experienced during the fourth quarter of 2011. However, due primarily to the increase in Behavioral Health revenues and the very low
levels of bad debt and uninsured discounts in that business, our overall percentage of bad debts, charity care and uninsured discounts
were lower than those experienced during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our cash from operating activities was approximately $280 million during the fourth quarter of  as compared to $156 million in the
fourth quarter of 2011. Our accounts receivable days outstanding increased to  days during the fourth quarter of 2012, as we continue
to have a substantial Medicaid receivable from the state of Illinois.
At December 31, 2012, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 58%.
We spent $81 million on capital expenditures during the fourth quarter. Included in our capital expenditures were the ongoing
construction costs related to a new acute care hospital in Temecula, California. We opened a new bed tower at our Wellington hospital in
West Palm Beach, Florida early in October. We opened a total of  new behavioral health beds at some of our busiest facilities in 2012.
During 2013, we expect to spend approximately $360 million to $385 million on capital expenditures, which includes expenditures for
capital equipment, renovations, new projects at existing hospitals, and construction of new facilities.
Excluding the favorable $0.13 per diluted share EHR impact described in our press release, our estimated range of earnings per diluted
share attributable to UHS for the year ended December 31, 2013, is $4.35 to $4.50 on projected net revenues of $7.4 billion. We are
pleased to answer questions at this time.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 