Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
 
Dow Wilson, President and CEO; Elisha Finney, CFO; and Clarence Verhoef, our Corporate Controller. Dow and Elisha will summarize our
results, then we'll take your questions following the presentation. To simplify our discussion, unless otherwise stated, all references to
the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years. Quarterly comparisons are for the first quarter of fiscal year  versus the first
quarter of fiscal year 2013.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements. Our use of words and phrases such as
outlook, could, believe, can, expect, will, hope, target, likely and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which
represent our current judgment of future performance, or other future matters. While we believe them to be reasonable based on
information currently available to us, these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially.
Some of the important risks related to our business are described in our first-quarter earnings release, and in our filings with the SEC. We
assume no obligation to operate or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new
information, future events, or otherwise. Before turning it over to Dow, we're reminding those who participate in Q&A following these
prepared remarks, to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up, just to give all participants a chance to ask their question during the
call. We thank you for helping with this. And now, here's Dow.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Good afternoon, and welcome. We are reporting results that we believe put us on track for hitting our revenue and earnings targets for
the fiscal year. To summarize our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year  versus the year-ago period, revenues rose 5% to
$712 million. Our gross margin grew by  basis points to 43.5%. Our operating margin remained about level, even after the significant
step-up in our R&D investments, and our net earnings grew by 6% to $0.91 per diluted share.
 
We had several positive developments subsequent to the close of the quarter. These included a big win for Oncology in Algeria, our
announcement of an expanded agreement to supply an estimated $515 million in imaging components to Toshiba and a 510(k)
clearance from the FDA for our ProBeam Proton Therapy System. I will focus now on the operational highlights of our businesses in the
quarter.
Oncology Systems grew gross orders by 5% to $533 million for the quarter, with the help of strong 13% order growth in North America,
where we saw a broad-based increase in hospital purchasing activity. Hospitals accounted for the lion's share of our orders in North
America. We booked $19 million in orders related to agreements with two large health systems in the US to supply a total of $50 million
in equipment and services for their consolidated networks over the next several years. The remainder of these orders we booked over the
terms of the agreements.
Numerous takeouts of competitor software and hardware products, including several aging Siemens and TomoTherapy machines added
to Oncology's growth in this market. New products, including our EDGE platform and upgrades for stereotactic radiosurgery also
contributed to our orders growth in North America. Our newly introduced RapidPlan software for fast and high-quality knowledge-based
treatment planning got off to a solid -- a good start with several orders, including one that was coupled with a replacement of a
competitor's accelerator.
We continue to see signs that the Affordable Care Act is causing decision-makers at treatment centers to sharpen their focus on both
clinical efficacy and cost efficiency. Our Oncology product line is closely aligned with this focus, and we believe our competitive position is
stronger than ever. During the quarter, health authorities in the US recommended lung cancer screening for people deemed to have a
higher risk of developing this disease. This recommendation could result in earlier diagnosis for a large number of cases, that could be
treated with long radiosurgery. We are hopeful that this prompts more centers in the US to acquire and use our radiosurgery products to
help these patients.
Turning to markets outside North America, gross orders were relatively flat in EMEA, where weak equipment purchases were offset by
robust gains in our service business. The sales funnel in EMEA continues to look promising, despite delays that pushed potential deals in
several nations outside the quarter. We believe our market share in this region is stable.
In India, TrueBeam enjoyed continued success during the quarter with five wins, including a key placement in the National Oncology
Center at Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. As an aside, TrueBeam constituted more than 60% of total high energy machine orders in
the quarter. We have now booked more than 1,000 orders for TrueBeam and completed more than  installations since its
introduction in 2010.
We had a big win after the close of the quarter in Algeria, where we have entered into an agreement to supply the Ministry of Health with
$51 million in equipment and service for six centers over the next five years. We expect to book about half of this order during the second
quarter, and the remainder has delivery sites and dates are set.
In Asia, Oncology gross orders for the first quarter declined as a result of softness in both Japan and China. Lower purchasing activity,
competitive pressure, negative currency fluctuations, and a tough year-ago comparison resulted in a significant decline in Japanese
orders during the quarter. In China, the first quarter gross orders fell slightly versus the year-ago period, due to delays in purchasing
decisions. We believe these decisions will be finalized later in the year. Both TrueBeam and UNIQUE have established firm footholds in
the China market, and we believe they helped Varian to gain share there during the quarter.
In Brazil, we had another quarter of strong order growth, even though we have not yet booked any orders from the tender we won for 
machines. We expect to book orders relating to this tender as sites and shipment schedules are set. In the meantime, clinicians have
continued to show interest in upgrading purchases to deliver IMRT, which is now being formally reimbursed by private insurers, with the
government likely to follow. In total, gross orders for Latin America and the rest of the world declined by 5% versus the year-ago quarter.
Service represented a record 40% of Oncology gross orders in the quarter, and continue to be an important growth driver for the
Company. The service business expanded by 15% during the quarter, with particularly strong growth in EMEA.
 
Turning to X-Ray Products. The timing of order placements resulted in the first quarter gross orders decline of 19% to $108 million.
Shortly after the close of the quarter we booked over $20 million in orders for panels and tubes. We saw strong demand for our new
mammography and wireless panels and continued interest in our bundled panel and workstation solutions. Separately, we are
announcing the execution of an expanded three-year agreement to supply an estimated $515 million of imaging components to Toshiba.
Orders will be booked over the period of the agreement. As was announced earlier, we are adding 120,000 square feet to our production
facility for manufacturing imaging components in Salt Lake City.
Before leaving X-Ray Products, I want to take a moment to recognize the contribution of Bob Kluge, who is retiring in February from his
role as head of Varian's X-Ray Products and Security and Inspection Products businesses. Bob built X-Ray Products' revenues from $95
million in  to $546 million at the end of 2013. We are indebted to Bob for his strategic vision, intelligent management, and
consistent execution, that have propelled Varian to a leadership position in the global imaging industry. He set the stage for continued
success and growth in our components businesses.
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Thanks, Elisha. The Company is executing its marketing and operational strategies effectively, and we believe we are on track for hitting
our fiscal year  growth targets. For the fiscal year, we continue to believe that total Company revenues could increase by about 6%
to 8% over the prior fiscal year.
Net earnings per diluted share for the fiscal year could be in the range of $4.22 to $4.34. We expect total Company revenues for the
second quarter of the fiscal year  to be about equal to the year-ago quarter, when Proton revenues were high. Net earnings per
diluted share for the second quarter could be in the range of $1 to $1.04. We are now ready for your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
I'll answer the North America question first. The North American business is obviously very good. We are very pleased with that. 13%
orders growth in North America. That's the strongest quarter we've had in over two years, so we like that a lot. As I mentioned in the
script, we did see a couple large deals in the quarter, and we think that we will continue to see -- as the market consolidates, that we will
continue to see some large orders.
I'd say the short cycle business is about the same. I wouldn't say that has ticked up. We did see some nice edge in RapidPlan activity, so
that's the good news.
The new products are taking -- we did see some strong competitive takeouts. I think it's too early to tell whether this is -- I frankly don't
think it's reimbursement driven. Maybe there was a little bit of pent-up demand as people watched Washington make some decisions,
but I think it is still a little early to tell what the long-term impact is going to be.
I guess our gut now is it's still in the mid-single digit growth scenario, which is better than we have done the last year or two, so we like
that. The good news is, we still have a lot of product in the installed base that is aging. We've got 1,100 LINAC installed base in the US
that is over  years old, so we can go after that.
And then the other thing that we are curious to see how it impacts the market, it will be positive in the long-term, certainly, is this new
lung screening mandate that has come down. Clearly, the earlier we can identify a lung lesion, the more appropriate it is for radiation.
That will also have a positive impact on the configuration that we sell, because folks are going to want SBRT capable, motion managed
capable machine.
So that is kind of the tour of North America.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Right now for both.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Yes, I think the margin rate one is an easy one. We do believe that will continue. There's no reason to see that decrease at all.
The number one analytic that we look at inside, is install base out of warranty. Our install base out of warranty in service continues to
grow.
I think as we sat on the call somewhere middle of last year, we basically have the TrueBeam coming out of warranty, one per workday
this year, and that is driving our growth. We are seeing more TrueBeams come out of warranty, in particular outside of the US, so a lot of
that early TrueBeam volume went into the US, and now we are kind of moving into the bubble outside of the US from an installed base
out of warranty perspective.
We are also seeing a richer contract mix that comes with that. The TrueBeam pricing is better, and we also -- the service team I think has
done a very good job of going after software service agreements, as well as driving capture rates -- contract capture rates in the business.
So we see this double-digit scenario in the service business continuing.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
We have seen a slowing of purchasing activity in China. We think it is temporary. Our share was up in the quarter, as I mentioned, and
we're pleased to see that. Our funnel is very strong in China, so we think it is just a timing issue.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Let's see. I think it's a little bit of both. Both of these are consolidated customers, so there has been some acquisitions.
I know the parent organizations were both Varian customers, but in their consolidation, there is some competitive equipment that they
had consolidated in, that we will be replacing. That $19 million is the amount that we actually booked in the quarter.
The deals were, together they were $50 million. As we get a little more visibility on the sites and the dates, we will be booking the other
$31 million of those orders.
 
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
I think it is -- the way we kind of view it here is, we had a tough comp. We had a lot of accelerated purchases in Q1 of last year, with a little
budget acceleration that they were doing in Japan.
We also had some yen impact year-over-year, and so the market is soft. We still think the long-term growth in the market remains very,
very good. Less than 30% of patients in Japan get radiation as part of their cancer therapy. In Western Europe and the US, that number is
over 50%, 50% to 60%. We think that Japan remains of a good long-term growth market.
We do have a lot of opportunities in the Melco installed base, which is gradually replacing -- for those of you don't know the history there,
we bought that installed base a dozen years ago or so, and those products are coming to the end of their life, and we are seeing a nice
replacement opportunity there.
Over the last year, our share has been stable in Japan. We have a very high share there, and we think that will continue in the long-term.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
The hospital reimbursement rate went up, as part of the reimbursement package that was approved in December. Hospital proton
reimbursement went up.
Free standing reimbursement in protons is negotiated with each carrier. They typically kind of follow the federal hospital guideline in
proton, so we think this is encouraging news. But it is not -- it still has to be negotiated center by center.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Carrier by carrier. Thanks.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
In fact, no. It was only $19 million of that huge number, so we got a nice $50 million order, but we actually only booked $19 million of it.
So we did see broad-based strengths in the US market. There might have been a little bit of timing, because people waiting for some
certainty with the reimbursement decision. We have a little bit of pent-up demand.
You heard me say our forecast on the year is that this market is going to be a mid-single-digit market. That would be great news for us.
That has not been a mid-single market for a while, so we would love to see that stability, and we are thrilled with the start that we have in
Q1, and our funnel looks pretty good.
 
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
Stepping back at the highest level, I think the oncology business is in the mid-single-digit range. The imaging components business is in
the double-digit range. Proton is the wild-card. With got a pretty good proton funnel, but our long-term growth in the mid to high
single-digits is a pretty good forecast for what our markets are doing.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
It is a focus for us. Some of them come in lumps, which gives us some of issues with the predictability issue. But as far as yield and scrap
goes, on the overall quality, it's a major initiative for us across the entire business.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
First of all, coming to Europe, we did see strength in the southern Europe, which surprised us. That was not something we were
expecting. The France thing and Italy were strong.
We were expecting weakness in Northern Europe. We had a very large order last year in the UK, which I think we'll be explaining a little
bit of that all year in Northern Europe. Central Europe was relatively flat. We had good performance in India, and our service business
performed very well in Europe. So Northern Europe and Central Europe was where we were down and India and Southern Europe is
where we were up.
The Toshiba contract and the x-ray business, we are thrilled that, obviously, it has been a terrific partner, and really driven the growth in
our x-ray components business for the last several years. The contract value-- the agreement value is about $515 million, which is up
about 10% from the last time. So it's part of what gives us this confidence in calling a double-digit scenario in our components business.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
As I mentioned on the call, we did see a conversion of the hardware socket with RapidPlan, so we were glad to see that. We think that
there will be more of that. We did see a lot of pure software conversions of people converting either treatment planning or oncology
information systems install base to either ARIA or Eclipse. That has been a multiyear trend.
We think we've been winning more than we have been losing, and I'd say especially with the strength of RapidPlan coming out of Astro,
we have got a nice lead in treatment planning, and with Rapid Plan, I think it is really hitting a chord with people. Whether you are the
best at treatment planning or new in the business, RapidPlan is going to help you. I think customers are seeing that, and it is really
driving the conversation for both software and hardware.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
There's always going to be the PLA tender, but otherwise, I don't think the structure of the market -- it might be consolidating a little bit,
but I don't think at least at this point anything -- I don't see any material change in terms of structure of the China market. It happens
customer at a time and province at a time.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
I think our share is stable to up a hair. It's not up dramatically by any stretch, but our share has been at least what it has been historically,
so I think most of this is, at least that we saw in Q1, is a pretty good market.
We haven't seen Elekta's results yet, and we won't see them for another month or so, but that's kind of our gut. When you look at the last
rolling  months, which is probably a better way to look at it, our share is stable to a hair up.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
As I said, we did have some takeout of tomotherapy units in the quarter. They are still out there. They win a few, but I think RapidArc and
volumetric arc therapy, from Elekta have also made it very tough for the competitive differentiation of tomotherapy. There was another
piece to your question.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
The overall pricing environment is good. We have seen stability in pricing.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President & CEO
The good news is the short-term environment look too bad. the reimbursement news, at least, stabilized the investment environment for
people over the next year.
I think there are some question about where it ends up in the 2016/2017 time period, as legislation drives to more accountable care
organizations and things like that. And I think there is -- I think our customers still have some uncertainty about that. I think what we are
seeing is a reinforcement of what our customers are looking for.
They are looking for real clinical value. If you have got product that has a demonstrated clinical value, and can help drive efficiency, you
win. So I think both radiation and Varian have a very good story in the value that we drive in healing patients.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
 
President and CEO; Elisha Finney, CFO; and Clarence Verhoef, our Corporate Controller. Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and
then we'll take your questions following the presentation. To simplify our discussion, unless otherwise stated, all references to the
quarter or (technical difficulty).
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements. Our use of words and phrases such as
outlook, could, believe, can, expect, will, hope, target, likely, and similar expressions, are intended to identify those statements which
represents our current judgements on future performance or other future matters. While we believe them to be reasonable based on
information currently available to us, these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second-quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new
information, future events, or otherwise.
Before turning it over to Dow, let me remind you that we are holding a mid-year review and webcast for investors in New York on
Tuesday, May 6. Details are available on our IR site. Now, here is Dow.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Welcome. In the second quarter of 2014, we generated good order growth, revenues that came in slightly ahead of expectations, and
solid margins before accounting for the settlement of patent litigation. If we could summarize our financial results for the second quarter
versus the year-ago period : revenues rose 1% to $779 million. Our gross margin grew by nearly  basis points to 42.2%. Net earnings
came in at $0.88 per diluted share, including a $0.16 per share charge related to the settlement of the seven-year patent dispute with
the University of Pittsburgh regarding our Respiratory Gating Technology. And our quarter-ending backlog rose to $2.8 billion with the
help of about $60 million in proton orders.
Turning to operational highlights, Oncology systems grew its gross orders by 6% to $613 million, with strong gains in Latin America and
Australia, 3% increases in both North America and EMEA, and a 3% decline in Asia where the weak yen offset constant currency growth
 
of 3%. In North America, we see hospitals continuing to consolidate, and hospital administrators focussing increasingly on system
purchases that enable cost-efficient quality care with the best clinical practices.
This is our strong suit. As an example, we entered into two new multi-year agreements with large hospital systems to supply them with
packages of accelerators, accessories, software, and services. Portions of these agreements were booked in the second quarter, and the
remainder will be booked over the five- to seven-year terms of these agreements. We have more of these types of deals in the sales
tunnel.
In EMEA, we booked roughly half of the $51 million multi-machine Algerian order that we announced early in the second quarter. We
also booked sizeable orders in Italy, Spain, and Switzerland. Subsequent to the close of the quarter, we exhibited at the ESTRO meeting
in Vienna, where attendance was up and where we saw heavy booth traffic with a lot of interest in our Rapid Plan software and in
radiosurgery solutions.
In Asia, Japan had double-digit order growth with a key win in Hiroshima, and good replacement business from conversions of aging
Siemens and Mitsubishi units. We grew gross orders slightly in China. In the meantime, interest in radio therapy is rising in other Asian
markets, including Vietnam, the Philippines, and Myanmar.
Growth in rest of world, including Latin America and Australia, was particularly strong during the quarter. In Brazil we received orders for
several TrueBeam units, as well as some software systems which were outside of the 80-machine tender that we won earlier this year.
We have not yet booked orders relating to this tender. Columbia, Bolivia, Peru, and Ecuador were also active during the quarter. We
received numerous orders in this region for our cost-efficient, low energy unique accelerator with Rapid R capability.
In Australia, we received a sizeable order from the Genesis Care Network that included  TrueBeams that will be delivered over the next
three years. In total, TrueBeam comprised more than 60% of our high-energy accelerator orders during the quarter. This product has
generated more than $2.5 billion in gross orders since its introduction just four years ago.
Siemens' replacement business contributed to our oncology order growth in North America, EMEA, and Asia. This strategic partnership
has gained momentum and is working well for our Business. Siemens conversions have accounted for more than $80 million in gross
orders this year. We also landed new business in the Philippines working with Siemens. Thanks to their help, Varian will supply
accelerators to the first three of eight planned new radio therapy centers at some of the country's leading hospitals.
We also made good progress during the quarter with our EDGE radiosurgery offerings. We booked nearly  orders for EDGE upgrades
and systems. We reached an important radiosurgery milestone during the quarter when Champalimaud in Portugal commenced the
world's first treatments with our EDGE platform.
Champalimaud's first EDGE radiosurgery patient was a 63-year-old woman with operable stage  non-small cell lung cancer. Physicians
there also treated a 67-year-old man with two metastatic brain tumors. He received radiosurgery for both tumors in a single session that
took less than  minutes. To our knowledge there isn't another system that matches the combined precision and treatment time of our
EDGE radiosurgery platform. Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit recently became the first center in the United States to commence treating
patients with EDGE radiosurgery.
Turning to oncology services, we expanded gross orders in this part of the business by 11% during the quarter. Year to date, service orders
represented almost 40% of the total oncology gross orders.
As was reported earlier, we completed our acquisition of Velocity assets, including software designed to help clinicians make more
informed treatment decisions by organizing patient data and making it available in one place. This acquisition supports our commitment
to providing clinicians with tools for data-driven clinical decision-making. The Velocity software enables healthcare professionals to use
oncology patient images and data to plan and assess treatments, collaborate with colleagues, and share clinical knowledge. We expect
this will play an important part in the movement towards evidence-based medicine.
 
I'm pleased to say that the skilled clinicians who developed this software are joining Varian to help develop and commercialize this
product on a broader scale. This software is already in use at over  centers around the world, and we believe we can achieve faster
and deeper market penetration for this product to our global sales, marketing, and service network.
Let me turn to our new imaging component segment, which is comprised of our X-ray flat panel detectors, tubes, and security products.
We consolidated these product lines into a single segment as a result of an organizational change that put them under the management
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Thanks, Elisha.
The Company is continuing to execute well, and our businesses remain on track to reach our FY14 growth targets. For the fiscal year we
continue to believe that total Company revenues could increase by about 6% to 8% over the prior fiscal year. We expect net earnings per
diluted share for the fiscal year, including the $0.16 effect of the patent litigation settlement, to be in the range of $4.06 to $4.18. We
expect total Company revenues for the third quarter of FY14 to increase in the range of 5% to 6%. We expect net earnings per diluted
share for the third quarter to be in the range of $1.06 to $1.10.
 
We're now ready for your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
We commented last quarter that we felt very good after last quarter, and I would say that momentum is continuing and we're seeing
good strength with Siemens globally, frankly. We like what we see there.
You know, some of that was having the product ready. We finally got connectivity with the product, and that's good. And you know, I
think we're doing a nice job selling there. Selling their hardware.
But it's really kind of a story about the software coming together and completing that -- completing that capability in our ARIA product
lines that connects to their old LANTIS installed base. That is all done now. We have some show [sites] where we can take people, proof
statements and clinically, and I think that momentum is turning there.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Our funnel remains very strong. We were positive it wasn't as big as we had hoped this last quarter. But it was still positive.
We do believe we're getting some share in China. So that's good. But we do see a pretty strong second half in China.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Let me start by saying we had a very good position in Brazil before the tender win. You know, we were far and away the market leader in
that market. So we've always had a good position in Brazil.
Winning the tender has certainly helped us, it has reinforced that leadership position so, you know, so I think there has been a little bit of
a halo effect. This is the private market.
I think our product is very well positioned. We've got a very good distribution for this team down in Brazil, and we think we're very well
positioned for both the short term and the long term. I guess maybe what the question fielding from an investor point of view is the new
tenders, both government and non-government are not effected by the MOH ministry of health pricing. So we're seeing good pricing on
these other orders as well.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
On the quarter, well on the half, for that matter, as well pricing has been stable. So our pricing is definitely holding and we're pleased
about that.
On the quarter, we did have -- our unit volume was up and our mix was a little more of a kind of an international mix. We had more
unique than usual, and we had a little bit more of a kind of value segment mix order, but product to product, year over year, quarter over
quarter, pricing is very stable.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Sure. You know, the good news is volatility measured in the last two quarters -- sorry, tongue in cheek here a little bit, measured in the
last two quarters we've had good US market performance.
And that's the, you know, for us the we (inaudible) it's been a tough market as you said, David. But our orders on the half were very good
year to date. Gross orders are up 8%. Gross orders in the quarter were up 3%, as we said.
Yes, the market is consolidating, and the freestanding clinic market is pretty quiet. But we are seeing the hospital market be pretty
aggressive. Our -- in terms of outlook, the funnel looks good, and I would say we're looking for kind of mid single-digit market growth out
of the US, and frankly that is a positive an outlook that we've had on that market in a long time.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
You know, I would say it is a combination of factors. You named a number of them. Certainly the reimbursement was helpful to get those
on the same footing now is a big deal, if we were substantially lower than gamma knife reimbursement before or radiosurgery and those
are now reimbursed at the same level. That is one help.
Two, is clearly in the environment that we're in, administrators are particularly looking at making their purchases go farther, and when
you look at the number of patients and indications they can treat with EDGE, versus what they can treat with gamma knife, especially
with the single largest trend in radiation therapy being SDRT with lung, and liver and pancreas growing, having the flexibility and
versatility of the EDGE is a big deal.
And then last of all, EDGE is the, you know, as I said in the prepared remarks, it is a combination of the most precise and fastest delivery
method to treat these indications, and it has, obviously, a throughput impact. It also has a patient impact.
 
You know, these patients are sick and having to in some cases sit on a table half hour to an hour for a complex treatment. On EDGE, they
can have that completed in 10,  minutes, and they're set to go. So I think it's really kind of a combination of all those factors and I do
agree, I think we are seeing some momentum there with that product from a relative competition point of view.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
I think from an R&D point of view we're kind of three significant areas where we're spending this increase in R&D. One is software. We
think there is a big opportunity, we're the market leader in Eclipse, we continue to invest in algorithms in Eclipse, you are seeing things
like Rapid Plan for us. That will continue.
ARIA is a terrific product. We have had to make investments this last year for the Siemens connectivity and things like that. We continue
to bring a lot of enhancements to that product, and look forward really to evolving that product in the infomatic space and in globalizing
the product.
So that's some of the investment there. And then for the rest of the product line, emerging markets are a big piece of our product line
more and more, and that's where -- that is where we have a big chunk of our investment going that will yield products this year, next
year, and beyond. So we're -- we're investing aggressively in those areas.
As Elisha said on the call, we were pretty comfortable with where margin rates were on the quarter, and pricing is holding. We continue
to invest a fair amount, as well, in operational programs to drive productivity across our business, and have made pretty good progress in
-- on the variable cost of our tubing platform, as well as on our cost of quality in both our X-ray components business, as well as
oncology.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
Absolutely, from a long-term point of view that is absolutely what we have got to do, and that's in terms of new products we want to
deliver products that deliver what the customers want from a feature performance point of view, and match our requirements from a
shareholder margin point of view, and so we are -- that is where a significant piece of our investment is going.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
As you know we don't guide to orders, and I will say that second half of last fiscal year we had a pretty good funnel and their results
weren't that great. So I think part of what we're seeing is the yield on the funnel is good, so we continue to see a very good funnel. The
 
yield on the funnel recently has been good. And I'll stick with the comment I made before, and that is we're kind of seeing market outlook
in the for long-term, in the mid single-digit area.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems Inc - President and CEO
You know, it's -- I think there is a lot of enthusiasm and excitement for the product. We showed it at ESTRO of course last year, as you
know. It had its European introduction at ESTRO, very strong global interest.
We ship the first units to customer here in eight weeks or so, and the official commercialization is this summer. So we've got lots of
customers lined up for it.
We think it is a game-changer and as a little color we will start with the prostate model and then head and neck follows very shortly after
that, and then we're on to breast cancer models and other cancers. And, with the enthusiasm we're seeing from our customer base, both
luminary and community and outside of the US, we think that this is -- this remains several hundred million dollar opportunity for us.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
 
With me are Dow Wilson, President and CEO, Elisha Finney, CFO, and Clarence Verhoef, our Corporate Controller. Dow and Elisha will
summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion, unless otherwise stated, all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years, quarterly
comparisons for the third quarter of FY14 versus the third quarter of FY13, references to the year to date are for the first three quarters of
the fiscal year.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements. Our use of words and phrases such as
outlook, believe, can, expect, will, hope, and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current
judgement on future performance or other future matters. While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently
available to us, these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new
information, future events, or otherwise.
And now, here is Dow.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Good afternoon and welcome.
For the third quarter of 2014, we are reporting solid order growth for our Imaging Components and Proton businesses; some big wins in
emerging markets, as well as weakness in Japan for our Oncology Systems business; a 4% increase in our orders backlog; revenue and
 
gross margin gains in all of our business segments; and earnings in line with our expectations before the impairment of a portion of our
existing investment in Augmenix.
Compared to the year ago quarter, revenues for the Company rose 3%, to $748 million, and net earnings were $1.02 per diluted share.
The impact of the approximately $8 million Augmenix impairment was about $0.06 per share.
Oncology Systems gross orders came in at $620 million, down by 1%, despite strong wins in key emerging markets, including China,
Latin America, and in parts of Eastern Europe. Orders for Oncology were up by 2% in EMEA, and about even in North America, and down
by 6% in Asia, with a sharp decline in Japan, where we faced tough year-ago comparisons. Orders rose by 20% in China, where we
believe we are gaining market share.
For the BRIC countries in total, orders grew by more than 50% during the quarter. Our business in Latin America grew by more than 30%
in the quarter. We continue to generate new orders in Brazil, but have not yet booked any from the  machine public tender conducted
in the first quarter of this fiscal year.
In EMEA, Varian was selected to supply  TrueBeam systems for the Beatson Cancer Centre in Glasgow and its planned new satellite
center at nearby Munson's Hospital. We also had a key win in Germany, where a hospital group placed an order to replace  of their 
Siemens machines with TrueBeam systems. This group also ordered our Eclipse treatment planning software and our ARIA oncology
information software to replace their LANTIS network. We continue to expand our business across Africa, with orders in Algeria, Morocco,
Libya, Nigeria and South Africa.
North America generated strong order growth for service and software, while equipment orders were soft during the quarter. We had a
big win in Nebraska at the Buffet Cancer Center, which ordered our EDGE radiosurgery system, a TrueBeam system, as well as our
treatment planning and oncology information software to replace competitive products.
US hospitals, which today comprise about 90% of our North American equipment orders, received positive reimbursement news at the
end of the quarter. CMS has proposed a modest overall 2% increase in rates for calendar year 2015. Hospital rates would rise for both
radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and a proposed new bundled rate for radiosurgery remains equal, whether the treatment is delivered with
a LINAC or a Cobalt unit. All those being equal, I expect that machine versatility and patient throughput will become more and more
important for buyers of radiosurgery systems.
As an aside, a study conducted at the University of Alabama, Birmingham shows that RapidArc radiosurgery is substantially more
efficient and comparable in plan quality to a competitive Cobalt system for treatment of multiple brain metastases. This study has been
published online and is slated to appear in the October issue of "Neurosurgery".
We are generally pleased with the hospital reimbursement proposal, which we hope will lead to further reinplacement of older systems
with newer higher throughput units that are capable of delivering both radiotherapy and radiosurgery. For freestanding clinics, CMS is
proposing a policy change to exclude the radiation treatment vault as a direct expense in the rate calculation.
Rate reductions for conventional 3-D radiotherapy, IMRT and SDRT would range between 2% to more than 6%. We expect that this
proposed policy change will be the topic of debate between now and November, when CMS finalizes the rates for next year. We are
partnering with others within the industry to advocate for reversal of this policy.
Oncology Service was again a star performer, delivering another quarter of double-digit growth, with particularly strong performance in
North America. Service represented about 40% of Oncology orders for the quarter and the year to date.
On the product front, we made good progress during the quarter in our software business, which was particularly strong in North
America. Orders ramped up for our full-scale solution that fully integrates our ARIA information system and our Eclipse treatment
planning software in the cloud for hospitals and clinics of any size.
 
Earlier today, we announced the deployment of FullScale at e+ CancerCare, a multi-site network of cancer clinics in the US. FullScale is
also deployed at Vantage Oncology, a network of over  oncology centers. FullScale uses are delighted with the speed, flexibility,
scalability and accessibility of their data on smart phones and tablets, as well as computers.
At the annual meeting of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine, or AAPM, this week, we featured several products for
quality assurance and sharing clinical knowledge through data analytics. We exhibited a new software tool called Machine Performance
Check for automating tests to help confirm that our tubing system is operating within proper parameters. It completes  tests in just 
minutes and adds another level of competence for centers that are performing more and more sophisticated procedures.
We also showed Cumulate, a cloud-based data management tool for quality assurance, as a works in progress. Clinicians will be able to
use this tool to create templates for their QA processes, identify trends in QA data, and compare their machines' test performance to the
average of machines at other treatment centers. By using tools like this, we expect clinicians will be able to enhance the consistency and
efficiency of their treatment processes.
Other products featured at the meeting included RapidPlan for knowledge-based treatment planning, our new Velocity tool for
aggregating imaging and treatment data, and TrueBeam 2.0, which now includes enhanced image guidance and motion management
capabilities to the TrueBeam platform.
Among the presentations at AAPM was a talk by researchers from Champalimaud Center in Portugal and the Henry Ford center in
Detroit confirming that our EDGE radiosurgery system can target cancerous tumors with sub millimeter accuracy. Their end-to-end
testing showed that our efforts to integrate multiple subsystems can result in a high level of precision for certain radiosurgery cases.
You may have seen a press release issued early in June about a 79-year-old patient who chose RapidArc radiosurgery rather than
conventional surgery for his lung cancer. He got five treatments on our TrueBeam surgery unit and each session was completed in about
 minutes, a much easier alternative to surgery. It is both exciting and gratifying to all of us at Varian to see the dramatic improvements
in treatment opportunities our innovations offer patients.
Let me turn to our Imaging Components segment. Gross orders for this segment increased 12%, to $162 million, with strong growth in
panels and tubes that was partially offset by soft demand for our security products. Gross orders grew in excess of 30% from our panel
business. This included a contract with a large OEM in China for 1,000 panels that will be delivered over the next two years. Other x-ray
equipment manufacturers are designing our panels into new imaging systems, setting the stage for continued growth in this product
line.
Healthy order growth in our x-ray tube product line was driven by our big OEM customers for use in CT scanners, general radiography,
and mammography systems. We are now focused on targeting new OEMs to expand the market, and we shipped a number of new x-ray
tubes for evaluation by these customers during the quarter. Our Imaging Components has built its backlog, as we have signed more
long-term contracts for both panels and tubes.
The company's Other category, which is comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and the Ginzton Technology Center, recorded
gross orders of $57 million in the third quarter. During the quarter, our Proton team booked its third order of the fiscal year to supply our
ProBeam Proton Therapy System to the National Taiwan University. The expected total value of the agreement is estimated to be about
$100 million, including long-term operations and maintenance services. We continue to see strong customer interest and good
momentum in this business, which has now booked nearly $120 million in gross orders so far this year.
During the quarter, JPMorgan assumed $45 million of our approximately $125 million loan commitment to the Scripps Proton Project.
We believe this is a mark of the growing confidence that the financial community has in our ProBeam proton solution.
Scripps is continuing to expand the range of cancers that it is treating with this exciting technology and it has completed its first pediatric
treatment on a 17-year-old patient from Provo, Utah. She has been afflicted with a tumor on her brain stem for  years. She had
numerous surgeries to control the spread of the tumor, but doctors could not completely eradicate it, because it was too close to her
 
brain stem. Further surgeries were not recommended, so she turned to proton therapy. Her hope is that the treatment ends -- her hope is
that the treatment ends the tumor once and for all. We hope so, too.
Now I'll turn it over to Elisha.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Thanks, Elisha. We realize that our guidance range for Q4 is broad. The timing of our proton therapy projects is hard to predict and any
one deal can have a significant impact on our financials in a given quarter. We expect total company revenues for the fourth quarter of
FY14 to increase in the range of 7% to 15%, and we expect net earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.14
to $1.29.
We're now ready for your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Hello, Jeff. Yes.
 
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Well, I think first of all, from an overall reimbursement point of view, as I mentioned in the script, we're positive about the hospital side. I
think that's pretty good momentum for our market. That freestanding side, as I mentioned, is again, we've got another year of pressure
for freestanding, largely due to a change in how the vault is calculated as an expense. So between now and the final ruling on
reimbursement, there will be a lot of activity around that, which we will join.
In terms of clinical data, clinical data is very, very important. I think I mentioned the UAB paper that will be published here this next
month on stereotactic radiosurgery in the brain. That will be a very nice paper for us. It will really demonstrate the efficiency and
versatility of our machine, and equivalency in terms of clinical outcome relative to Cobalt-based brain radiosurgery. So we're optimistic
about that.
I think the growing body of evidence in lung cancer is a big deal. We continue to see that grow, literally, almost every day. And I think that
will be a theme at ASTRO, both in the customer presentations, clinical presentations at the show, as well as some of the technologies
that we're working on for the show.
In proton therapy, one of the things that we're seeing is a nice demonstration, especially of the benefit of proton therapy in head and
neck. That's an emerging application, with good clinical data forthcoming. And I think that will help boost some of the proton therapy
efforts.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Sure. Maybe for just a second, I can step back to the overall emerging markets. Brazil, Russia, India, China, Africa for us, we're up 70% in
the quarter and are up 20% year-to -date. The BRICA, now including Africa, is about 15% of our Oncology business. And as I said in the
script, we've had double-digit growth this quarter in China, India, Eastern Europe, and Africa. Interesting in Africa, we had good orders
performance in Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa and Libya. So we continue to see the continent move, which is encouraging. India was up
 
50% for us on the quarter and 35% year-to-date. So that's a nice story, overall emerging markets.
China itself, to get your question, we had a very good quarter. China orders were up 20%. The market appears to be recovering. We're
continuing to make a pretty substantial commercialization effort in that market. So we began in earnest 15,  months ago. And we have
a terrific team in place right now. And I think are really starting to make some nice headway in that market. As I mentioned, the market is
recovering. And we also believe our share is improving in that market. And we're seeing some nice success in the tender business there in
China, as well.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
I'd say we continue to hear some of the things that we've talked about, continued consolidation of the market, people moving to more
regional integration on the full provider side, hospital and non-hospital. So we're seeing regional consolidation there. I think we've talked
about the fact that deals are getting larger and more complex as a result. It does slow down a little bit of the purchasing process.
Freestanding market, as I mentioned in the script, is very quiet in an uncertain reimbursement environment. And I think that will
continue.
On the hospital side, still very bullish about radiation therapy. And the strong are investing and figuring out how to strengthen
themselves. We see continued attention given to total cost of ownership. I think that underscores our capability. We have the most
versatile machine out there. And as people look, especially at cost of lifecycle ownership of their radiation therapy, we're very favorably
positioned.
I'd say at a very high level, hospitals are looking very hard at their capital budgets. And there are a lot of conversations about where the
budget goes. But I think still very favorable outlook in the hospital market towards radiation therapy.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Maybe I can talk about the overall business and Elisha can talk a little bit about the tube quality piece. Overall, first half of this year, we
saw a little lighter growth rate. So we were really pleased to see the higher growth rate in the Imaging Components business this
quarter. Tubes were up 14%, flat panel was up 34%. And then our Security was down quite substantially. So overall, we were up 12%. We
continue to see digitization driving the flat panel piece, so we think that growth will continue.
On the tube quality side, when there's improvements in tube quality, it tends to drive one-time or gradual one-time adjustments in order
 
rates. And I think that's what we've seen from some of our big customers is as we've executed nice tube quality, it helps us on the margin
rate side, but it causes things to slow down a little bit on the order rate side. And we might have another quarter of that, two quarters of
that, as we go forward. But then I think we'll see it anniversary and move forward.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
And it makes us tough to compete with. It makes it tough to get out of there. So tube life is good.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Yes.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
You know, I'd say it's helping us. We've always had a very strong position in treatment planning. Our introduction of RapidArc really
strengthened that business five years ago. The continued strength of our algorithms, of our capabilities in treatment planning is a nice
differentiator for us in the marketplace. And we're demonstrating leadership there for sure.
The ability to deliver the physician prescription. Physician puts a prescription in there, and then they just want to know that it happens.
The Q8 happens, the delivery happens, and then the record and verify and interaction with the EMR all happens the way it's supposed to.
That's really what the physician wants to hear about. That's all seamless and integrated. And I think we've got a very good position there.
And I think that we are starting to see -- I think we've always had some benefit in treatment planning, and we're starting to see some
benefit from our oncology information system, our ARIA product, as well, as it impacts hardware sales.
So as I said in the script, we think our share in North America is up a little bit. So to answer your question directly, I think that's a part of
it. FullScale, people really like the virtualization of FullScale Going to the private cloud is a big deal. We've seen that in some of our large
accounts. We're starting to see that in the next tier of accounts, folks with  to  centers. The early adoption of FullScale has been folks
that have, customers that have more than a dozen accelerators. And what we've seen is that virtualization is driving up productivity story,
an upgradability story.
And I think we've got a nice position. We've launched the product in China. It's not just helping us in the US. It's helping us outside of the
US. And we've got teams across the globe getting very excited about it and customers, I think, are taking notice.
 
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
I'd just echo that. The core business, our processes haven't change. If anything, they've improved. And to Elisha's timing issue, if LINAC
moves one day outside of the quarter, that's basically $0.01 a share for us. I think we've done a really good job of managing our overall
earnings and EPS forecasting. The revenue forecasting, with protons, is where it gets tough. And that's where we had the miss this
quarter.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
You know, I think, as we mentioned last quarter, we continue to see large orders. And yes, we do see some move from quarter to quarter.
But I think at this point now, it's equal. What moved from last quarter into this quarter moves from this quarter into next quarter,
different ones. So we do look at every one of these very hard. But I'd say in any given quarter, depending on the size of an order, it can
move the number around. And we don't guide to orders. And it's maybe made the predictability of orders forecasting a little bit tougher.
But we do continue to see large orders. These large orders contain complex equipment with multiple year deliveries and a little more
complexity on that side of the order, as people consolidate a couple years worth of purchases together, and then across multiple sites. So
we are seeing that in any given quarter, it maybe goes one direction or the other.
I think at this point, at least coming into Q4, yes, there were some orders that we thought we would've booked at the end of Q3. We'd
have loved to have them. They're going to happen in Q4. Are those going to be incremental to our number in Q4? I couldn't look you in
the eye and tell you one way or the other.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
You know, I think it's hard to tell because of the continued globalization of the business. I'd say in the US, we probably are seeing the
book-to-bill extend a little bit. But outside of the US, it's a tender driven business. Once the tender's done, people want their equipment. I
haven't done the analytics, but I'd say on balance, it probably hasn't changed that much. Elisha, anything to that?
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
We've had a pretty good year so far. We've booked three systems this year. We're competing on a large number of projects. So we
continue to feel pretty bullish that the proton business can be a $200 million to $300 million business for us.
There's noise about compact machines. We have our own probing compact machine. We've got several customers looking at that
machine. It has several advantages. It's the only compact machine on the market with full 360-degree rotational gantry capability. And
it's got the best intensity modulated proton therapy capability which, over at the PT Cog, the proton therapy meeting in Shanghai last
month, that was all the news. It felt a little bit like 2000,  and IMRT. And we feel very good about our position with that capability.
And the short version is the feedback from customers is multi-room or single room, don't want to do proton therapy without scan beam
capability. And so we feel great about our position there. We have not seen a lot of growth in that compact room market yet. There's
others that have got some early share, maybe a year or two ago. But there hasn't been a big increase in recent orders, because people
want scan beam technology. And until there's a scan beam option in that market, it's not going to grow. And that's why we feel very good
about our position. We do have scan beam capability with that probing compact product. And we are in discussions with a few customers
about -- worldwide about taking on that product.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
You know, I think the challenge is the freestanding market. The hospital replacement market, I think as we said, that now 90% of our
Oncology orders is the US hospital market. The freestanding centers as a percentage of installed base, it's a strong third of the US
installed base. And they are not replacing. That replacement market is very, very quiet.
And until we see some movement there, I think -- the good news is the hospital market is moving, and we're seeing some nice action on
the hospital side. But that's not enough to offset the one third of the installed base that's the freestanding market. And that one third is,
at least at this point, very quiet replacement cycle. I think for that to happen, we'd need to see some movement in reimbursements. And
as I mentioned in the call, that's why there's a lot of consensus and activity going on around getting this vault calculation back in the
reimbursement scenario for freestanding customers.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
We've got  or  in the backlog, and I'd say  or  are impacting the number.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Yes, started to recognize revenue.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
Jason, the only thing I'd say is I don't know that it stalls anything, because it's already stalled.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
We look at it very hard every quarter now. We're very comfortable with our order booking guidelines.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
I think the focus is going to be, to link this to a previous question, is going to be can you demonstrate the clinical evidence of the
advantage of this proton therapy. And to really get that, you need good intensity modulated proton therapy. And therefore, you've got to
have scan beam technology. And that's what people are going to be looking at.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
And you can see that in the margin rate.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems, Inc. - President, CEO
We'll see in  days. (Laughter)
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
 
Wilson, President and CEO, Elisha Finney, CFO, and Clarence Verhoef, our Corporate Controller. Dow and Elisha will summarize our
results and will take your questions following the presentation. To simplify our discussion, unless otherwise stated, all references to the
quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the fourth quarter of FY14 versus the fourth quarter of FY13. Please be advised that this presentation and
discussion contains forward-looking statements. Our use of words and phrases such as outlook, believe, expect, will, and similar
expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current judgment on future performance or other future
matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us, these statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our
fourth quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking
statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information, future events, or otherwise.
As a reminder, please mark your calendars that Varian will be hosting its annual year-end meeting for investors at the Westin Grand
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Thanks, Spencer, and welcome, everyone. We are reporting mixed results for the fourth quarter of  with strong gross orders growth,
but earnings that fell short of our expectations for two primary reasons. Earnings were $1.02 per diluted share. We did not book the
Maryland Proton Therapy Center Project, which would've added $0.17 per diluted share, and we had $0.09 per share diluted share
impact from an unusually high increase in our tax rate. Elisha will explain this in more detail later. Now, let me summarize the rest of the
quarter.
 
We are reporting strong gross orders growth in our Oncology Systems business with several major wins in North America and Europe and
continued double-digit strength in emerging markets; healthy order growth, but flat revenues in our Imaging Components business;
total Company backlog of 10% at $3.2 billion, including an 8% gain in our core businesses; revenues of $812 million up 5% from the
year-ago quarter; gross margins down in Oncology Systems and up in Imaging Components and continued investment in R&D and SG&A
to support our product roadmap and global expansion.
Oncology Systems gross orders grew 9% to $918 million for the quarter. Gross orders for Oncology grew 11% in North America, aided by
multi-system network wins at several customers. We also saw one of the strongest ever quarters in Canada. Performance in North
America was helped by the sale of integrated systems combining linear accelerator software and stereotactic radiotherapy and
radiosurgery offerings.
Our Oncology gross orders grew 4% in EMEA during the quarter, with significant wins in the UK, Switzerland, France, Germany, and Italy.
We were particularly strong in the UK where we were selected to supply eight TrueBeams and a full suite of software to Guy's and St.
Thomas Hospital in London. Just a year after the UK National Health Systems supply chain ordered  TrueBeams, we received an order
for a further  TrueBeams, demonstrating the strong demand for this system among the country's hospitals.
We also saw orders for our first two Edge radiosurgery systems in the UK, which will be installed at the Clatterbridge Centre for Oncology
near Liverpool. Other highlights in our EMEA region included orders for our first two TrueBeams in Bulgaria and  TrueBeams ordered
by a large customer in India. Our team in India generated strong gross order growth for the quarter and for the year.
Total orders for BRICA territories, including Brazil, Russia, India, China, and Africa grew by about 35% during the quarter, with particular
strength in Brazil and India. BRICA orders were up by 25% for the year. In Brazil, we booked more than $30 million of the major Brazilian
Ministry of Health tender that we were awarded a year ago, helping the Latin America region to grow by more than 60% during the
quarter.
Even without orders from the Brazil tender, gross orders for Latin America were up by 10%. We continue to make progress in China with
strong unit volume growth and a mix shift toward lower cost units in hospitals that are striving for more cost-efficient care. Our global
oncology service business continued to see double-digit growth with gross orders increasing 11% for the quarter and 12% for the full year.
Overall machine volume rose significantly during the quarter, which will expand our installed base and set the stage for continued
growth. Service was 40% of the total oncology revenue for both the quarter and the year. It's been trending up as a percentage of total
oncology business and we expect that this will continue. Software was a highlight of our exhibit this year at ASTRO in September where
we featured new cloud-based software and data analytics tools that we believe create the opportunity to double our software business
over the next few years.
We believe data analytics is the next frontier for our software business. Our customers are excited about the potential of mining their
data for better decision-making and improved clinical outcomes. We had more than  attendees at our users meeting at ASTRO and
there was tremendous interest in our new software tools. These products included FullScale, our cloud-based oncology information
system for remotely managing clinical information and treatment planning data with greater cost efficiency.
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Thanks, Elisha. FY14 was a year of investment aimed to stimulate long-term top line growth for the Company and we've made good
progress. We're focusing now on restoring our more normal operating expense levels to maintain margins and improve earnings growth.
In the first quarter of FY15, we expect to take a restructuring charge of an estimated $13 million or $0.09 per diluted share to realign and
reduce our staff levels through programs including an enhanced retirement plan.
For FY15, we expect revenues for our Oncology Systems and Imaging Components businesses, as well as proton orders currently in
backlog to grow in the range of 5% to 6%. Including the $0.09 per diluted share restructuring charge, earnings for the Company should
be in the range of $4.16 and $4.26 per diluted share. Our guidance excludes contracted proton projects that are not yet financed or
booked into backlog.
If these projects are booked during the year, the potential upside in revenues and profits could be significant. For the first quarter of FY15,
we expect combined revenues from our Oncology Systems and Imaging Components businesses, as well as proton orders currently in
 
backlog to grow by 0% to 2%. Earnings per diluted share for the total Company, included the expected $0.09 per diluted share
restructuring charge, should be in the range of $0.76 to $0.80. We're now ready for your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
The lesson we learned here from 2014, Jeff, is if it's not financed on the proton side, the timing is just too unpredictable.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Based on the feedback we received from a number of you, we've taken that out of our guidance. It does represent significant upside for
us, but obviously, we're not proud of this fourth quarter and it not being in the fourth quarter earnings had a huge impact on us. We think
the customer continues to move it along and we're confident it's going to happen, but it has yet to happen. The timing is so difficult to
predict that we've just taken it entirely out of guidance.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
The other thing I'd add here is we were very gratified by the orders volume we saw in Q4. That was great.
The first three quarters were lighter and so we've kind of got that flowing through the first half of the year. We've got some tough foreign
exchange that we're looking at as it comes out of backlog and into sales.
Then the other thing that we've got in the Oncology business in  is we will be taking our first Brazil units to the P&L, which I think
Oncology's going to be fine overall, but kind of a better mix of the US orders and software orders overall can be offset a little bit by the
Brazil pressure we have as we deliver these units down in Brazil.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I think there's a number of issues around proton. Clearly, one of the things driving protons is the inherent physics, the advantages of the
drag peak and the ability, really, to reduce dose to healthy tissue. One of the things that we identified when we acquired ACCEL  years
ago was their technology for doing intensity modulated proton therapy was the best out there.
I think in large measure, some of these older proton therapy systems do not have advanced capability for doing IMPT. The analogy holds
in radiation therapy, if you don't have IMRT capability today, you're nowhere. I think it was as much a technology reason as anything else.
The Indiana, I haven't talked to them personally, but it was one of the first proton centers in the US. It was older technology, generations
behind. It's in a tough location. It's an hour outside Indianapolis, an hour plus outside Indianapolis, not in a big location, it has a small
attachment area.
They did good work, primarily research, and if you saw the report, it was very costly for them to modernize in that location. We feel very
good about the partners that we're dealing with. Clearly, the cost of protons is expensive and we have to work on that together to bring it
down, but the clinical advantages of proton look very, very positive.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Let me say this from the outset, for getting reimbursement for second to just looking at the North American market, the North American
market was up 11% in the fourth quarter. That's the best quarter we've had in North America in over two years. We really like that.
The market continues to be a hospital market only. We see very little participation from the freestanding centers. That's 90%-plus of our
market right now.
I think what we're seeing in the proposal is that the payments for the hospital market are going to remain okay. We expect them to be up
1% to 2%.
We like the fact that the bundled payment for single fraction SRS favors Varian LINACs. It's the same for any SRS SBRT treatment and
there's no price advantage to any competitor in the marketplace.
In the proposal, the freestanding rates are going to get haircut again as proposed. The rationale behind that is CMS wants to move the
vault from a direct to an indirect expense and exclude it from the cost calculation that gets to reimbursement.
We've had a major effort with our customer partners, with Congress to oppose those cuts. We won't know if those cuts get modified until
November. We did have a huge chunk of the Senate and the House sign the letter, so I think we've made what argument we can.
But at this point I'd say, in the proposal, the freestanding centers are looking at another 5%-plus cut. Is it going to impact us? At this
point, it's less than 10% of our market. We had a good fourth quarter and I'd say our funnel looks pretty good.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I'd say some of the trends that we've talked about before remain. We are seeing the strong get stronger and the good news is they're
doubling down and investing.
This last quarter, we had multi-system wins at a number of places. They're betting on technology. They really see the future of SRS and
SBRT and are making that bet.
There's a lot of investment in software for oncology information systems. We think we've got a very good position there, being clinically
rich is very important. That's an advantage we have coming from our space versus some of the enterprise players.
I'd say conversations with our hospital system partners remain very robust. They're looking at technology as a means of differentiation.
They're looking at consolidation in their local regional markets and the downside to that is the purchases are bigger and take a little
longer, but I think we've done very well. On the freestanding side, it's getting very, very quiet.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
There's a number of segments, kind of subsegments in here. The flat panel business is really what's driving the digitization. We were up
13% on the year.
We had a tough comp in Q4, but flat panel business is going to continue to rock. We see that as very strong.
The tube business, it participates in the digitization, but it also participates in the analog world. It's a little bit more of a replacement
business. We were down slightly on the year, so I think that's kind of following the broader trend in radiology.
In the fourth quarter, we had a huge order in our security and inspection business, $40 million. That's going to make next year in this
business tough to explain all year, those kind of lumps come and go. But I think, as a continued trend, we'll see a flat panel business
continue to grow very strongly and tubes will be a little bit of a flattish to slightly up scenario and then security will come and go with big
customer purchases.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
That's a good question, David, and we're looking very hard at it. We've done a couple of acquisitions this year that we're very excited
about; some pretty small frankly.
We acquired Transpire and Velocity and they both help out our software business in oncology. We think that's a good opportunity, that's
a space we continue to look at. They were small acquisitions, but they're already contributing and the funnels -- Transpire a little more on
margin rate side with some intellectual property that we acquired there and then Velocity, we've had a terrific ASTRO with Velocity.
We've got a robust funnel of activity there and so I think we've got some good execution on these two most recent acquisitions. We did
the Calypso acquisition three years ago and I'd say that's been slow, but now with SBRT starting to take off, we are seeing some nice
growth kind of on the horizon of Calypso.
More broadly, I'd say from the 30,000 foot level, oncology software is one focus area for us and the other is strengthening our
components business. We've got a great business model, a great team in the components business, and that'd be another place that
we'd look to enhance our portfolio.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I think if anything, ASTRO in our fourth quarter is a drag. I take my whole sales team and I park them in a convention center, the least
productive place in the world. So I think it's an indication the momentum is out there.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
All I can tell you is my funnel looks good.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
We mentioned on the call there's a project, of course, in Maryland, the project in Atlanta, and the project in Dallas. Those are the three
projects where we've been contracted, but the deals aren't yet financed, so we have booked them into our backlog until they're financed.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
None of those are in our EPS guidance.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I just want to underscore the big if here. We were burned on this last year, so we've taken out of our guidance. We're confident our
customer will get it done, but the timing has just been impossible to predict, so we're getting out of the timing business.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Let me talk to the US markets first. I think what's driving the US market is new technology. People really want to take advantage of the
new capabilities that the team is developing, especially for lung cancer and liver cancer. People want hypofractionation continues to be a
big trend and as our customers go from a little bit of hypofractionation to a lot of hypofractionation, they need dedicated platforms to do
it.
So I think hypofractionation is a big piece in the US that's driving the growth. Our position with TrueBeam and EDGE is terrific.
The other thing is if you were at ASTRO, I thought our software lineup was just gangbusters. We got game in software. I think that we
had very good, when you look at the US orders coming out of the fourth quarter, that is very, very positive for us.
That was good. I'll go to your third question and turn it over to Elisha for some of the margin rate stuff, but the for the service business,
how long can it continue? We just had our best unit year ever. Our units were up about 12% year-over-year order-wise.
We continue to see good install base expansion outside of the US. US is a replacement market, OUS is not.
We think there's another 10,000 machines that are needed outside of the US. I think we've got a double-digit scenario. We're struggling
a little bit with FX as you look at our service business for 2015, but as we look at service long-term, I think it remains double-digit
scenario for a long period. I'll let Elisha comment on some of the international mix on margin rate.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
We're not quite so black and blue.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
Just to underscore, Jason, though, again, there's if on this and we're just taking ourselves out of the timing business on these.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
If there was 100% confidence, they'd be in our guidance.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
It depends how they're structured.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I think it's been a double-digit business in panel. I think we'll continue to see that. I think on the year, we're probably looking at strong
single-digit performance in the x-ray business.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
We are going to have a little bit of lumpiness because of the big security order that we took in the fourth quarter this past year, but the
core business is going to do fine.
 
Dow Wilson Varian Medical Systems - President, CEO
I think the good news is the funnel is robust and at this point, we have a good funnel in both the kind of smaller proton center market, as
well as bigger multi-room market and we've got capabilities in both segments. Last year, we booked three orders. We booked Cincinnati,
Taiwan, and the Paul Scherrer Institute, so we feel very good about getting those orders booked last year and the funnel looks pretty
good for us.
 