Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
I will now turn the call over to Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and CEO of the Company.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Thanks, Ryan, and good morning to all of our shareholders and other participants. Welcome to the Ventas first-quarter  earnings
call.
 
We are delighted to be here with our colleagues to discuss large trends fueling our business and report on our strong first-quarter results
from our diverse, high-quality portfolio. Following my remarks Bob Probst will review our segment performance and financial results
before we welcome your questions.
On the heels of a protective and value creating  we started our year off strong. Building off our advantaged properties, platforms
and people, we extended our long track record of excellence this quarter. We generated normalized FFO per share of $1.04, representing
comparable growth of 7% versus the fourth quarter 2015.
And we are right on track to deliver our full-year expectation of 3% to 5% comparable normalized FFO per share growth despite
projected net asset sales and resultant modest deleveraging in the back half of the year.
We are well positioned over the short and long-term to capture opportunities and continue to grow cash flow and value for our investors.
Our strong positioning is based on the decisions we made and actions we took in 2015, particularly the CCP spinoff and our acquisition of
Ardent, large macro trends that favor our business, our financial strength and flexibility and our well covered dividend with room to grow.
Let me address some of these factors.
We are excited to do business at the intersection of two large and dynamic industries with powerful fundamentals and growth prospects.
Both healthcare and real estate represent nearly 20% of our nation's GDP.
Our $1 trillion healthcare real estate market is fragmented and continues to be ripe for consolidation. We are still in the early stages of
asset migration from private to public [PMs] given that only 15% of healthcare and senior housing real estate assets is owned by REITs.
Over time Ventas' excellent diversified platform should be a magnet for asset flow. Our long-term growth prospects are also supported
by the increasing demand for healthcare and senior living products and services created by a large and growing aging population.
Longer life expectancies increase the need for health and senior care and seniors have immense spending power and wealth. Our assets
and operators will be the beneficiary of this wave of oncoming demand.
Turning to the upcoming change to the global industry classification standard, making REITs a standalone GIC, we anticipate that this
change should attract more capital to our industry over time.
At Ventas we believe our size, leading position in healthcare and senior housing, track record of disciplined capital allocation and
excellent team make us attractive to generalist investors.
Honestly if I were a generalist investor looking at GDP growth of 0.5% in the first quarter, corporate profits declining for three
consecutive quarters and global weakness, Ventas looks incredibly attractive.
We have a 4.7% dividend yield with room to grow, significant liquidity, a BBB+ balance sheet, diversified business model, high-quality
assets, an impeccable track record of consistent growth in income over cycles, opportunities to grow externally and powerful increasing
demand from consumers for our real estate. To my mind that is a compelling value proposition. So whether there is a new GIC or not why
wouldn't you want to own Ventas?
That said, we are obviously focused on our core REIT investors who are crucial to our continued success. And we will continue driving to
deliver outstanding results for all of our stakeholders.
As we look at our Company, we also like our positioning with a diversified, balanced and high-quality portfolio generating 83% of our
NOI from private pay sources. Our outstanding SHOP assets are located in highly attractive markets with strong home values, median
income and seniors population growth.
In our MOB portfolio, 88% of our NOI is affiliated with investment-grade hospitals and HCA. And 96% of our NOI is on campus or
affiliated with leading healthcare systems and hospitals. Finally, Ventas' entire portfolio is advantaged with only 4% of our NOI derived
 
from SNFs, who are adapting to evolving payment models and upcoming RAC audits.
Ventas enjoys a strong presence across five verticals, in each case doing business with the nation's leading providers. This exposure and
expertise enables us to invest capital across cycles to create value for investors and customers and fund operator consolidation.
Although the vast majority of our NOI is from private pay sources, I do want to note that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
or CMS, recently announced its proposal for fiscal year  Medicare reimbursement rates.
In general Medicare rates for different government reimbursed asset classes are slated to increase by varying percentages subject to
previously announced initiatives or other offsets. We view the proposals as in line with our expectation.
On that note, we recently reached positive agreements with Kindred on our long-term acute care, or LTAC, portfolio to better position it
for success. Our agreements contemplate disposition of seven LTACs and retaining full rent under our master leases with Kindred.
This is just one more example of our long-standing collaborative relationship with Kindred where the companies have repeatedly found
innovative ways to create value for both sets of stakeholders.
So, with our portfolio performing well, our liquidity and balance sheet strong, our customers leading their industries and our team
aligned and efficient we are continually looking for ways to create additional value through investment activity that delivers good
risk-adjusted returns.
As we have for the past several quarters, we are being highly selective in picking our spot as we consider investment opportunities. Our
focus continues to be on committing capital to high-quality hospitals, funding our selective development and redevelopment projects
and helping our customers grow.
We also have found some intriguing investment opportunities in superior real estate at different layers in the capital stack, such as our
recent investment in a secured junior loan tranche of Blackstone's core life science assets, principally in Cambridge, San Diego and San
Francisco.
In the acquisitions arena we see a very deep and active financing investment market for MOBs with interest from a variety of investor
categories. In senior housing too we see aggressive activity from private equity and pension funds among others, even when communities
are in areas with significant construction starts. However, the deal size in senior housing has been trending toward the smaller end of the
spectrum.
In hospitals our efforts continue to gain traction as more providers and their constituents are interested in the benefits that our capital
can bring to their organization. Our conversations with hospitals and health systems have been accelerating and broadening.
So, I have complete confidence in our role as the leading capital provider in our five asset classes and our team's ability to capture
opportunities and grow cash flows and value for our investors. However, as you know, the timing and volume of our future investment
activities are not subject to precise predictions.
In closing, for almost two decades we have used the Ventas advantage of superior properties, people and platforms to translate the
powerful forces of consolidation, demographic demand and dynamism in the large healthcare and senior housing real estate market into
consistent growth, income and value creation for our investors. And today, as we stand at the corner of healthcare and real estate, we are
well positioned to continue doing so.
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Good morning, Mike.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, thanks for asking. We think our life science investment is a great investment on a standalone basis, a great sponsor in Blackstone
and this was the core kind of best of the biomed real estate, this tranche of the financing.
So regarding life science, I think we have been very consistent for five years in our thoughts, which are that it is a good asset class, it is
only 5% of the pie.
 
And so, under the right circumstances like we found here, if there is an opportunity to make a really good investment we will do so. But it
is not a must-have like we articulated about the MOBs back in 2008-2009 which is almost 40% of the $1 trillion pie.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Okay, so the RAC audits were recently announced; they are called recovery audit contractors who come in and sort of look at the billings
under Medicare. And as you mentioned, that process has occurred over time with hospitals who are well through that including inpatient
rehab. But it is new to post-acute.
And I think that you may see some impact either from operators perhaps more conservatively coding and you may see some impact as
you saw in [ERF] some years ago where there are some objections to billings either past or present. And that can have some impact on
cash flows or EBITDAR.
From our standpoint we believe that Kindred, who is our principal post-acute partner, is very well-positioned. The services that Kindred
provides are clinically mandated and approved and it has a really good infrastructure to -- that is ready -- because obviously it has been
in the ERF business as well that is ready to deal with the RAC audit. So we feel good about that.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. Well, we have a great relationship with Blackstone who we admire greatly. And we also have a good relationship with your firm that
was involved in the financing. And so, this was really an opportunity that was presented to us that we think is a great risk-adjusted return
in a pool of assets that were very, very prime as a segment of the biomed business and about which we had a lot of knowledge and
information to begin with.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
We are at a, I would call it a lower tranche, we are in the high [70s] kind of loan to cost, so very attractive there. But at the lower end it
was bought at par.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Wow, you have an overactive imagination. But I like it. I would say that this is a good standalone investment that we made with a lot of
expertise that my partner John Cobb has in the debt market and with our friends at both those firms. So you should just think of it as a
great standalone investment.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, Bob will answer, but again, the guidance is on a reported basis. And so -- Bob?
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, first of all, we do believe in having a high-quality portfolio and having diversification and balance in that portfolio. And that
includes markets, asset types, etc.
So as we look at our normal capital recycling in terms of dispositions, I think senior housing is one of the areas that we would consider
having in that pool and we have said that. And we are constantly checking the market and constantly reviewing our portfolio for the best
candidates for capital recycling.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
So yes, we did buy a Holiday portfolio, it is a high-quality one. It was one of the earlier more curated portfolios that Fortress put out there.
We did structure it well and in a way to get 4.5% escalators in the early years, the last one of those is in 2016.
And we would expect over time that portfolio to, A, on the rent side go back to more normalized level and over time to grow into
normalized coverage. So the new CEO I think has some great ideas, I think the portfolio in general in the Company at Holiday had a good
start to the year. And so, we feel fine about our rent and feel good about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
What percent of total MOB NOI was that tenant?
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Just like office.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
We quoted the net benefit net of the rent we would have received in the period. I think the lease would have expired prior to the end of
this year.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Okay, good. So thanks for asking about that because we were trying to count here how many good deals that we and Kindred have done
together over the last however many years and I think it was eight or nine. And this most recent one is a good example of how both the
companies have elevated and improved their portfolios through -- over time as we have engaged in these transactions.
So what we have said is we have strong coverage now at  times in our post-acute portfolio. When you look forward we kept all the rent,
we would expect to exit seven of those LTACs. And of course we have changes in reimbursement in the LTAC sector starting to come into
play in  in September for Kindred.
And so, when you look at all that net-net-net, we would expect a temporary  to  basis point impact on coverage as we work through
and then normalizing as we come out of LTAC patient criteria. So that (multiple speakers) of the whole series of things, but this single
transaction I think is a great way for both of us to position that LTAC portfolio to succeed.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
It is about 6. And so, since the rent is -- we are keeping all the rent plus we are getting $6.5 million, it stays 6%.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
But again, sequentially you would typically see this pattern separate and --.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, and the key point is that we also generate cash flow which is fungible as a source as well, and so --.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
You should feel we are very consistent with what we said before.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, and it is consistent with the guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, it is nice that we were able to acquire the Atria portfolio when we did which had as its largest component the New York MSA, which
has been a great market for us. And as you point out, we do have two high-quality developments ongoing, both will be operated by Atria,
one in Foster City in the San Francisco MSA and one in Palm Beach County, obviously both attractive areas.
And we continue to look at development and redevelopment opportunities with Atria and others in all of these markets. And would feel
positive, frankly, about if we found a good site in any of these dense markets to do a development that we had confidence in.
Our bar on ground up development, however, is very high. And so, we want to make sure that we are really underwriting it carefully and
have confidence in the outcome. And that is why we have just kind of the MOB in downtown San Francisco with Sutter and these two
senior housing developments in these great areas with Atria ongoing right now.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, thank you for the compliment. It didn't always feel like it at the time, but hopefully in retrospect it is a very good track record of
disciplined capital allocation by our team.
Look, I mean what gets us excited at Ventas is making money for our stakeholders. And that has come and will come in many different
forms, but that is what gets us excited. And that is what we are going to continue to drive towards.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, we think we have a high-quality diverse portfolio with leading operators in our industry, the Brookdales, the Holidays and so on.
And the portfolios are well underwritten with credit support and the assets, as Bob said, are growing EBITDARM. And so, we feel we are
at good level of coverage that is market-based or above market base. And with a reasonable CapEx imputed we are above a 1.0.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Probably closer to a 1.1. And so we feel good about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, yes. I think that is a really good comment because over the years there has been I think a lot of misperception amongst investors that
one type of investment, call it SHOP, has risk and one, call it triple net, doesn't have risk and so on and so forth.
When we do underwriting of any asset that we are acquiring, at the end of the day those assets have to produce cash flow. And so that is
what we are focused on always first and foremost. And then along with it in all these areas, is it a leading operator, what is the asset and
the management team's position in the marketplace?
Can we provide additional structural support in the case of triple net and like guarantees and security deposits and so on? But at the end
of the day we are looking for good assets that are going to perform through good operating partners and that is true regardless of
structure. So you make a good point. And I think we have done that successfully.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, good question. Look, I think bundled payments are going to help hospitals, let's start there. And that was of course one
underpinning of our hospital thesis and investment as hospitals control more of these dollars and patients.
In so far, again, these just started in the  markets on hips and knees in April of this year. Kindred has said that as far as this project
goes it is going to have minimal impact they believe.
And in part I think they are using this new project to prove out that they are the best positioned post-acute provider in the country who
can deliver really good post-acute care, limit readmissions and do so for a reasonable cost. And that is of course the providers in
post-acute who are going to thrive in the future.
So -- but there is -- there can be as part of these trends some evidence that some patients will go directly from the hospital either to
senior living frankly or to home health. And that is a trend that has been going on for some time and will continue.
But again, the skilled nursing guys have a role to play in the post-acute delivery of care and there are plenty of these patients, believe me.
Plenty of people are having hips and knees replaced. And so, hopefully there are enough patients for everyone.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. I mean I think there will be winners and thrivers and consolidators like Ardent and others like HCA. But again, they are sort of getting
the payment in the bundled payment and they are paying the post-acute providers.
And so, we believe that the hospitals will do well and the post-acute providers who can deliver quality and do so at a low cost and limit
readmissions are going to get more market share.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
I am so -- thank you for asking that because that is something we talked about and we are happy to answer.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Of last year.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
We always pay attention to cash flow.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, I would say that obviously when we look at rents we are looking at it on an effective rent basis. There are targeted markets, for
example, Brookdale has talked about it where they are providing concessions in some cases that they used after the Emeritus merger.
And a lot of those Brookdale has said are -- they expect to burn off and not be replaced during 2016. So that would be one example.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
No, we are driving rates.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Okay, so, most of the change in coverage is due to the fact that rent went up significantly in the fourth quarter of last year. So we think
that is a good thing. You want to have good coverage but you don't want to have excess good coverage. You want to hit that optimal
point.
And yes, most of our 4% of skilled nursing is with Kindred, we have some with Genesis as well. And look, I think what you are going to
see, as we have talked about over time, is we have very strong coverage at  times. You are going to see I think some continued pressures
on the SNFs business.
And we are in a great spot with our partners who have credit and who are leading operators to work through those changes. And we
deliberately retained this portfolio because we believe in it.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, good observation. And again, happy that we acquired our MOB portfolio, which is very high-quality, again, in that 2010-2011 time
period.
I think what drives people to really like MOB is that they are a low-cost setting, you see the demographics and the utilization statistics
with the baby boomers and again the 10,000 turning  every day. You see the Affordable Care Act which is improving the insured
population in many states.
And then what you are getting as an investor is you are really getting above -- even at relatively low cap rates you are getting above core
returns with core like characteristics. Very reliable, consistent, steady, financial assets.
And in this global thirst for yield where we talked about why people like US real estate assets, that is a very attractive value proposition
and I think that is why you are seeing all these new entrants and a lot of interest in this asset class.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Well, in the UK I think what -- we have a small senior living portfolio and then a very nice public partner in Spire who is in the hospital
business (technical difficulty) triple net lease. And we have triple net leases frankly on both segments in the UK.
I think what we are seeing there in the private pay as well as the more long-term care business is that there are changes in rules and
regulations that affect staffing. And that is in fact putting some pressures on the operators there.
Our portfolio has been doing well, it is a small portfolio that we have grown and we like. But I think on a larger scale basis for both the
government reimbursed and the private pay there are some trends there that are compressing margins.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, well thank you very much. I will thank all my colleagues at Ventas for contributing to delivering great results. And I thank all of you
for your interest in our Company and your support of our Company which we appreciate greatly and we look forward to seeing everybody
at NAREIT in June. Thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
 
I will now turn the call over to Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and CEO of the Company.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Thank you, Ryan, and good morning to all of our shareholders and other participants, and welcome to the Ventas second-quarter
earnings call.
 
We are delighted to be here with our colleagues to report on our strong results from our diverse, high quality portfolio, discuss our
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. We will be happy to address our senior housing operating expectations for you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, one of the biggest factors, as I mentioned in my remarks, Michael, is that, do we believe that we are entering at a good
risk-adjusted return and that the assets are going to produce reliable growth and income? So that is the number one factor in all deals,
definitely. And obviously, our funding costs are critical because we are here to add value for shareholders. And so appropriate capital
markets is extremely important, and I would say, having a good relationship with Blackstone and the Wexford management team is a
helpful facilitative factor in the transaction as well. And the structure is always I would say a helpful factor, but normally it is not this
positive. It is really those cash flows. And here, when we look at Wexford and these are new assets or Class A assets and about
three-quarters of the NOI is from tenants who have investment-grade ratings, have billion-plus market caps, have AA rated or
universities. That, to us, is a really good risk-adjusted return when you are looking at 10-plus a year length of lease maturities.
And so everything came together, I think, in a really positive way. The fact that we have looked at the deal before, I think, really shows our
discipline and patience, and that is really how we operate here. And so we are very excited about it, and I hope that answers your
question.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, I would say the following. The Wexford business is a very institutional business. It matches incredibly well with the Ventas business
model. And I do think that there is a natural segmentation, frankly, between this part of the business and the Cambridge, et cetera,
cluster market strategy. I would say to you that the reliability of these cash flows is extremely high, and they will produce this reliable
growth and income that Ventas prizes and that our investors prize. But it is a different game in Cambridge, really, and there's excellent
players like Alexandria and Blackstone who will invest in those 4% or 5% cap rate markets and deal with the turnover and all of that. But
Wexford fits with the Ventas business model. And that is really the key thing, and it is a very reliable, consistent growth and income with
institutional tenants and even cross-selling opportunities with medical assets as well.
So that, I think, if anything, the deal is just a good one for our shareholders, plain and simple.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. Well, as you know, we are big believers in the growth opportunity in our hospital business. We are really happy with the Ardent
investment and the Ardent management team. It is performing very well. We have said all along that this is a big, long-term secular
opportunity, and we want to build a great business here.
We have also said we are going to be very selective and we are. We want high quality with all the characteristics that we've talked about
 
over and over again, and we think we can scale this Ardent business. But it is a business where we will stay selective and, therefore,
difficult to predict when transactions will meet the hurdle and we'll have something to announce. But, really, we feel optimistic about the
opportunities and feel really good about the Ardent investment and, hopefully, more to follow at the appropriate time.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Our last 4%-ish escalator is in 2016, yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. Oh, I am so glad you asked that. That did come out this week, and if you eliminate the 20% of hospitals that were not rated and you
look at the percentages, Ardent performed well above average and, in fact, in its markets, performed better than the competition.
So we were pleased with the outcomes. I know that the management team there is focused ultimately on certainly having everything 
and above and, ideally, everything in at least a 4. But that is a rarefied air. So we were happy with Ardent's performance and particularly
in its market that it is outperforming the competition on quality ratings.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Kevin, because we are very transparent in almost all -- virtually all of our SHOP assets are in same-store, there is a redevelopment asset
that is bringing down that number, which is the principal driver as it goes through significant redevelopment. And, of course,
redevelopment can both suppress as well as over time increase same-store performance. So that is what is really happening there.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. It is a tiny pool.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. It is a tiny pool.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, that is an Atria asset in SHOP.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
It is in Cape Cod, which is considered by the MSA nomenclature to be a tertiary market.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Our guidance would certainly suggest so.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
We will be excited to give you  guidance as soon as we can.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, that is a loaded question. I would say you wrote an interesting note on that. And I did mention that the value-based payment -- the
transition to value-based payments is accelerating with the addition of this new cardiac bundle that is going to be mandatory in, I think,
 markets in  on top of the CJR. We don't even know what markets the  are yet, and so there is a limited amount of clarity we can
provide.
But overall, the bundling initiatives, which will continue to come as part of the evolution of the healthcare system, in general, should
favor high quality hospitals, and, while longer-term may present opportunities for the winners in skilled nursing, in the near term will
likely create some pressures on the business. In terms of quantifying it, again, too early to say. It is even too early to say on the CJR
because we have only been in it since April.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. Well, one direct answer and one clarification. We are focused on building the university-based institutional part of that business,
which is really Wexford's core business, and they are far and away the leader in that market. So a great brand, trusted developer, and we
believe there is opportunities there to grow that business and have some on the drawing board now, as I mentioned. And that is really
where we are going to focus.
And the clarification is that these  universities that we are already doing business with in the Wexford portfolio -- so  universities that
are tenants, they account for 10% of all university life science R&D spending, which is amazing when you think about it, that this pool of
tenants that accounts for 10%. So our strategy will really be to grow with those leading research universities and then, also, kind of target
the next  or so institutions in terms of research and development.
So we think we can grow with the tenants we have, and we have those development sites, most of which are in those markets. And then,
we also have additional institutions that are top-tier research universities that we would hope to grow with as well.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
We are actually pleased with the structure, and we have a great example of that in our PMB relationship in medical office. Because it is
really a really high quality development platform that we have exclusive relationships with to fund and own preleased premier projects
like the Sutter building in California that we are building in downtown San Francisco. So we see Wexford very similar to that, and we
think it is a great structure that works for both sides and has worked well for us in the past.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
It will be, again, yes, similar to what we have with PMB and very straightforward, which is, when Wexford has projects, we will work on
them together. We have the exclusive rights to fund and own them on market terms.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Yes. I mean, we would expect to have, like we do with PMB, development profits in the deals that we would do with Wexford.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
In general, yes, but, of course, if it were fully preleased to a AAA credit, I mean, that would be one thing. And if it were -- it is just like any
other type of deal that you look at. It will be market based, and we will gain the benefits of a substantial amount of the development
process.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, honestly, it is like everything else. For example, we are developing this premier MOB in downtown San Francisco that is anchored
by a AA rated credit Sutter Health, and we make a decision on that with X amount of pre-leasing based on our expertise, knowing that
that -- and this is why the businesses are very similar. You have strong institutional support from AA rated institutions for a big
component of the building, and that anchor tenant drives the demand for the building to fill in the spaces that are not preleased by that
institution. It is exactly parallel. And so every deal is different with PMB, and every deal will be different with Wexford. But we are very
excited about the prospects and, as I said, have some things on the drawing board that we think are very attractive.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
It will be its direct line.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
It is normal.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Like everything else, it will be a function of what is available and will be opportunistic, and we will -- we are a large company. I mean, we
are a $36 billion, $37 billion company. So if any one project is $100 million, $150 million, I think we could certainly manage multiples at
one time, assuming we think that they meet our risk-adjusted return expectations.
So I like the idea. Unlike a big office building, for example, you're going to have basically uncorrelated assets under development at one
time. You might have one with a Washington University or one with a UPenn or something like that, and so this would be uncorrelated.
But we are large enough and have the financial strength and flexibility to do multiple projects at one time.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, we want to be reasonable about the expectations. We are very optimistic about it, but we would imagine that in five years, it could
be anywhere from 1.5 to  times. We have certainly scaled the Atria and Lillibridge businesses. But it is always a function, again, of what
the opportunities are presented and whether they meet our capital allocation discipline and whether we think they are going to make
money for shareholders.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
It depends on the opportunities. Of course, we want to help our customers grow. We want to be help them do tuck-ins and fill in markets
and so on. And, in addition --
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
We feel very optimistic about the longer-term opportunities to scale Ardent and build a high quality hospital business. The sector is
gigantic. It is a $300 billion-plus space. It is consolidating. And, importantly, I truly believe, in my nerdy University of Chicago way, that
assets will flow to the most efficient owners and that we are in such an efficient owner with significant expertise.
And so I feel very confident about it, and we are working hard on it. All investments are really based on opportunity sets, though, and we
have said over and over that in the hospital business in particular, we will be selective on quality. And so the thesis remains intact. In fact,
it continues to be very exciting to us, and it is really a matter of time, I think, which is a little bit more unpredictable. But we feel good
about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Heck, we have always been disciplined. There is a deep market with new entrants who, once you invest in medical office and senior
housing, they are very financeable assets. And the good thing, as you point out with our cost of capital and just our overall strength of our
business, is that we are sellers by choice.
So what we are trying to do is create options in terms of sale and continue to refine our portfolio and do some routine capital recycling.
And so I think that is all to the good. And so we feel right on track with our guidance and feel confident about the market for those assets.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, it really depends. As I said, we are sellers by choice, and so we have a pool of opportunities that we can decide whether to do or not.
And so the cap rates will depend on what we decide to ultimately pull the trigger on in terms of disposition.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Right. We are in a relatively Goldilocks environment for REITs in general, I would say, and for Ventas in particular as I mentioned. We
have been in this slow growth in the US economy for a while, that what I would say is that in the financial crisis and recession, senior
housing was the only real estate asset class that continued to show positive NOI growth. Our business -- our guidance is based upon a
continued low single digit GDP growth. However, what I would say is, because of our long-term leases, if you look at the kinds of things
we are doing with Wexford, if you look at our business mix and our business model, we have inelastic demand, growing demographics,
long-term leases with escalations, where our business really should and has in the past in recessionary environments, continued to
produce reliable income, and I would expect that going forward.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
I think resiliency is exactly the right word, and I think that what Ventas continues to offer to investors, which is highly valuable, is a very
protected downside on cash flows with significant upside from internal and external growth. And that is more valuable now than ever.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Okay. We have time for a couple more.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, everything is a candidate for disposition. And, as I have mentioned with the portfolio that we have, we want to continue to think
about where we can optimize the portfolio, where we can recycle capital, and we want to optimize that. And so we review the portfolio on
a regular basis and think about the best ways to create pools of potential disposition candidates, and I would say SHOP and MOBs are in
that pool, along with loan repayments, as Bob mentioned. And so I would just think about it that way.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
In no specific order, I would say, as John mentioned, helping customers grow and being a good partner, development and
redevelopment, which will be with Wexford, with Atria, et cetera, with Sutter, and PMB and then putting capital to work, supporting
Ardent's growth within the hospital space. So those are key capital allocation priorities.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
I am not going to choose between my children. So let's take that another time, and we will go to our last question. Thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
About the time of the closing, which we estimate to be in the fourth.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, we have a very small investment in UK senior housing. The assets are performing as we expected. We like our partner there. We
continue to look at opportunities in the UK. The regulatory and operational environment there has been challenging for the operators,
and so we are continuing to do work, and that is how we feel about it. We like our investment. It is small. We are glad we have a presence
in the market that enables us to be opportunistic and knowledgeable as I mentioned before, so that is how we are thinking about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
Well, there's new staffing roles rules and things and enforcement activities of that staffing that have increased costs, and the operators
are getting kind of up the curve on that. And that is what I mean.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman and CEO
We care about our investors, and I would just like to close by saying that we know that demand for healthcare and senior housing
products and services is going to increase exponentially as people live longer and our aging population grows. With our diverse high
quality portfolio, our leading platforms for growth, and our cohesive team, we believe that Ventas and our shareholders will benefit from
this wave of oncoming demand and increasing life expectancies. We really appreciate your time and interest in our Company, your
continued support of the Company, and nothing makes us happier than making money for you.
So, thank you, again.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
 
section of our website, at www.ventasreit.com. I will now turn the call over to Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and CEO of the Company.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Thank you, Ryan, and good morning to all of our shareholders and other participants, and welcome to the Ventas third-quarter earnings
call. We are delighted to report on our strong financial results, brought to you Courtesy of the Ventas Advantage: our excellent people,
platforms, and properties.
Today I will also discuss our closed and pending major transactions and provide an overview of economic and market conditions. Because
we've been so productive, there's a lot to cover. Following my remarks, Bob Probst will review our segment performance, financial
results, and full-year expectations. After that we will welcome your questions.
Leading with results, this quarter we delivered $1.03 in normalized FFO per share, representing 5% year-over-year comparable growth.
We also demonstrated capital markets excellence and positive trends in our credit profile. As a result, we are also pleased to improve our
 
full-year normalized FFO per share and same-store NOI guidance.
Our strong and consistent performance is fueled by our market position at the exciting intersection of healthcare and real estate, two
large and dynamic industries with powerful fundamentals and growth prospects. Recent activities continue to demonstrate that we are
executing on our strategy, allocating capital wisely, and doing what we say -- a Ventas hallmark. We have built an exceptional enterprise
that continues to deliver reliable growth and income from a high-quality diverse portfolio on a strong balance sheet.
Our innovations over the years, and especially the spinoff of most of our skilled nursing assets and other developments since the third
quarter of 2015, have produced a differentiated business mix and put us in a great position for continued success. Let me highlight just a
few of the platforms and properties that are driving our positive outlook.
First, during the quarter we closed on our exciting and accretive $1.5 billion acquisition of institutional-quality life science, innovation,
and medical real estate leased by top universities, academic medical centers, and research companies. Our new tenants include Yale,
UPenn Medicine, and WashU.
Like other areas of our business, our tenants are market leaders, accounting for fully 10% of all university life science research and
development spending in the US. This investment represents a great entry into the large and growing healthcare-related R&D space. It
adds an adjacent business line to Ventas that further diversifies our portfolio and cash flows. At a 6.8% going-in cash yield for the 
class A operating properties, we are delighted the Wexford investment.
We are also benefiting from an exclusive development pipeline with Wexford. There are two assets already under development in the
portfolio, anchored by Duke and Wake Forest, and nine development sites for future growth. We are already making progress on a high
profile potential new development project adjacent to UPenn Medical. This demonstrates the attractive growth opportunities that should
flow from combining Ventas is capital with best-in-class developer Wexford.
Likewise, our investment in Ardent has proven to be a channel for growth. Last year during the third quarter, we closed our acquisition of
Ardent's hospital real estate and articulated a vision for building a formidable, high-quality hospital business in this large, dynamic base.
We chose Ardent as our beachhead investment because it is a winner and potential consolidator with its good hospitals, significant
market presence, attractive payor mix, good quality of care, and strong margins. We also designed a growth strategy that's focused on
scaling Ardent's experienced management team and strong infrastructure.
At that time we identified some desirable acquisition targets and legacy hospital partners for LHP, who's at the top of the list because it
shared these desired characteristics. We are now happy to say that Ardent has inked a deal to acquire LHP, just like we drew it up on the
board.
As healthcare's premier capital provider, Ventas is fueling Ardent's growth by providing a $700 million secured loan, enabling Ardent to
acquire LHP. This deal is attractive both financially and strategically for all Ardent partners and shows our continued ability to align with
market leaders to support their growth.
Financially, the loan will be accretive to Ventas's  earnings, with a going-in floating interest rate of approximately 8%. Ardent will
remain financially strong and expects to achieve significant synergies. We are happy to say that Ardent continues to perform very well on
its base business through the third quarter.
Strategically, the LHP acquisition expands Ardent's existing business by 50%, making it the second largest privately owned hospital
company in the US, with annual pro forma revenues of $3 billion and major market share in its diversified locations. It also provides
Ardent with very valuable partnerships with top not-for-profit health systems and academic medical centers. As a result, the LHP
hospitals enjoy strong brand recognition, clinical integration, good markets, and favorable payor relationships. We expect the Ardent
LHP deal and our loan to close in the first quarter of 2017, subject to customary regulatory and other conditions.
 
Ventas is committed to being a positive influence in our industry, to maintaining strong relationships with the nation's leading providers
of care, and to working collaboratively with them to create value. Recently, across our business lines, we've made good progress
advancing our customers' interests in areas important to them.
Here are a few examples. First, we recently reached mutually beneficial agreements to modify our decade-long agreement with Sunrise
Senior Living. In short, we provided long-term stability in the management contracts with Sunrise, and Sunrise agreed to reduce the
management fees we pay under those agreements on a permanent basis.
Other changes to the agreements align the companies toward profitable growth and enable Sunrise and its dedicated on-site employees
to focus on providing superior services to seniors and their families. We also entered into a new multi-year pipeline agreement with
Sunrise, giving Ventas the right to fund a pool of new Sunrise round-up developments.
Second, we have also reached agreements with various customers to cooperate with them on modest asset sales or asset buybacks.
These included the recently completed sale of seven long-term acute care hospitals, or LTACs, with Kindred to a new operator and a
pending disposition of  non-strategic senior living assets with Brookfield.
This approach can give the care providers operating flexibility and higher cash flows and also enable Ventas to recycle capital into
attractive development, redevelopment, or acquisition opportunities. We are committed to finding ways to support our customers' efforts
to improve their own results and performance in ways that also benefit our portfolio and protect Ventas shareholders.
As a result of our portfolio performance and accretive acquisitions, we drove good cash flow from operations this quarter, too, enabling
us to pay our investors a strong and secure dividend of over 4%. We expect our Board to increase our dividend in the fourth quarter of
2016.
When we look at the investment market, we continue to see attractive opportunities, but we remain highly selective. We focus on deals
that will generate reliable cash flow and cash flow growth at an appropriate risk-adjusted return.
Our capital allocation is also strategic, emphasizing sectors with upside and situations like Lillibridge, Atria, Wexford, and Ardent, where
significant future growth potential exists from consolidation and/or development. Our ability to invest capital across cycles to deliver
value to our investors comes from the combination of our advantaged position within six asset classes or verticals, our strong
relationships with market leading customers and platforms, and our team's hard-earned experience and skill.
The macro environment on balance continues to be favorable, including GDP growth in the 2% to 3% range and a global thirst for yield
that is accelerating foreign investment into US real estate. While the expectation of higher interest rates can initially dampen enthusiasm
for REITs and real estate, we are still enjoying the benefit of incredibly low long-term borrowing rates, reasonable job growth, rising
household income, low inflation, and improving corporate confidence, as expressed in surging M&A activity. Hopefully we will also have
certainty about the election soon.
All of these conditions should be positive for commercial real estate fundamentals and growth. At Ventas, with our needs-based,
demographically-driven business; a superb track record of consistent, reliable growth; external investment opportunities; a terrific credit
profile; and an advantaged business mix, we should continue to thrive.
Finally, the third quarter marked the anniversary of our Ardent deal and the successful spinoff of most of our skilled nursing facilities.
When I reflect on the tremendous improvement in our enterprise since then, I really like what I see.
Compared to the third quarter of 2015, we still generate over $2 billion in annualized NOI. Our assets are higher quality, our business is
more diverse, our cash flow is robust and even more reliable, and most of our business is with the nation's leading care providers and
research institutions. And we enjoy multiple channels for growth. We are also lucky to have a best-in-class team that truly enjoys working
together for the benefit of shareholders.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
This is Debbie, Juan. What I would say about the agreement is that it is a mutually beneficial one, where we were able to provide Sunrise
with good long-term stability in its management contracts for the original term, and we were able to make sure we were really aligned
for growth going forward. And also, we were able to achieve, as you said, some lower management fees.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, you should think about it, I'd say, very positively -- which is that we've actually created incentives for Sunrise to grow even more
than the old agreements provided for. And if they do, there will be shared benefits to both companies from hitting those goals, which are
stretch-year goals.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
So again, this is a really good opportunity, I think, for us to work with our customers and benefit them in a way that also is good for
Ventas shareholders. So this is still at the very early stage. It's  assets; we have agreed to jointly market those assets with Brookdale. So
we would be exiting those assets together, and a new operator would take over.
And our portfolio would improve; Brookdale's performance would improve as a result. But again, it's a modest transaction, in the $20
million-plus range, so -- at the margin. But again, a good example of how the companies can work together to benefit both sets of
shareholders.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, we have a good relationship with Brookdale, and they are one of the largest, obviously, senior living providers. And we've been
doing business with them since 2005. So I would hope that over the years, as we have, we will engage in lots of different types of
discussions with them to grow and to dispose, as we just talked about, in ways that can be beneficial for both of us.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, I love the way you say loan to own. I wish I could say it as beautifully. But what we really have committed to in the hospital business,
and with Ardent, is to help Ardent grow and expand their business in a really high quality, selective way. And that means, of course, great
market share; great assets; and good payor relationships, good mix.
And so LHP meets all of those. And what we've tried to do is create a bespoke capital solution for the deal that really enabled Ardent to
win the deal and will enable Ardent to close the deal -- and gives us great optionality, as you point out.
It's a well-structured loan. If we get it paid back, we will be quite happy. There are limitations, lockout periods and so on, on the
repayment.
And of course LHP has these great partnerships with very high quality not-for-profit systems and academic medical centers. And in that
regard we want to be good partners to them, and if they believe over time that there is an opportunity to gain real estate ownership, we
would be very open to that.
But the key is really developing these relationships with the not-for-profits; fueling Ardent's growth; and creating, obviously, a larger
Rolodex of relationships in the for-profit and not-for-profit quality healthcare business. So we are very excited about this, and I think it
does a lot for us, for Ardent, and for EGI.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, thank you for your sensitivity to the situation. I would just say that Sunrise is really getting the ability to have stability in these
management contracts for the original term, and again, opportunities to align both of our companies toward profitable growth.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
As I mentioned, we have established some positive growth targets in the new arrangements. And should Sunrise outperform those, then
we will both mutually benefit.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Just be happy.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Both Ventas and Sunrise are happy. So you can share that. Thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, we basically have modified the contracts to convert single asset rights that Ventas has into more favorable but pooled contract
provisions.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Absolutely. So again, LHP is extremely attractive because -- and then we noted that at the very beginning of our deal last year. And that's
because they have really strong market share exceeding 60%, really good margins, really good mix -- and, as I mentioned, these
valuable partnerships with brand names that give pricing power.
And so it is a real gem. And in terms of -- you know, we are looking at  expected performance, and I'll tell you that LHP now is
borrowing in the 4s. So we think that the credit market is understanding the creditworthiness of the company based on that.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
As I understand it, they only have one asset, and it is performing exceedingly well. That is the (multiple speakers)
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Yes. As we look forward, we expect to see very strong coverage of our loan, which is at a higher interest rate, as well as rent on the pro
forma organization.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
As I mentioned, we have myriad ways that Ventas is working all the time to produce results and cash flow for shareholders and to be a
good partner to our customers. And this fits really squarely within that.
And our business is very dynamic; it's always evolving, and we have opportunities all the time, if we are wise enough and alert enough to
see them, to work with our partners -- whether it's the kind of Kindred LTAC sale that we just completed, or the Brookdale deal that we
just got launched, or this agreement with Sunrise -- to really find innovative ways that are creative, that are customized, that help both
companies achieve the goals that they have. And this Sunrise deal fits squarely within that.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
We are seeing attractive opportunities, and that is one of the beauties of our diversified business, as I mentioned, with the six verticals. I
think over cycles, we have consistently seen good opportunities to allocate capital in the right ways, hopefully at the earlier stage of a
cycle.
And we continue to see that. I think we look -- John and his group look at tens of billions of dollars of transactions every year, and this
year is no exception.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Great question. So the hospital market does seem to be a little bit of a tale of two cities, and I can't speak for the community deals that
they have done, which have been large and are in the rural hospital market; I can say that David Vandewater, who runs Ardent, was a
huge consolidator when he was the number-two executive at HCA over the years, and really started the hospital consolidation craze, if
you will.
And so we have a lot of expertise, both here at Ventas and also at Ardent -- and, of course, with Sam Zell's organization, which is the
majority partner in Ardent -- to make sure that we have a positive integration. We don't take anything for granted, and there will be lots
of people focused on having a smooth integration. But thank you for that question.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, I think the synergies are likely to be significant. We would hope to achieve those over a couple-year period, with the majority
achieved in the first year. And so we feel really great about that.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
And remember, also, just so you know, to keep this in context, these are five hospitals.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
(laughter) We pay -- we are a dividend-paying company. So we like cash payments.
So it is cash, and the floating-rate loan. And our view on it is it is a market loan; it's attractive for all parties. And we were able, really, to
step up and provide a lot of certainty and expertise to EGI and Ardent. And that was, I think, really beneficial for the deal as a whole. And
all three parties, I think, are happy about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
I'm glad that you've noticed that our FAD is going up, because of course that's very beneficial to our cash flow. And also, the Wexford
assets are very new, and so we would not expect to have a significant amount of recurring CapEx on that 25-asset portfolio. So hopefully
that's helpful.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
We are going to have to move on. But like I said, our work is never done. And so we continue to work with our customers, with our
partners to benefit both companies. So let's move on to the next question.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Every agreement is customized to the specific situation. We have very positive agreements with Atria, and we've now reworked the
Sunrise agreement in a way that we feel incents aligned growth and allows them to have stability and take care of seniors.
So each is unique. I think we have improved the Sunrise situation, and we like the Atria situation. But it is a customized approach.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
I mean, part of our expertise is really developing these contracts in ways that incent the behavior and outcomes that we want. And in
general, those types of management agreements do have incentive sharing. And the art is really figuring out under different
environments what those levels are and what the percentage sharing is.
But in both cases, with Atria and Sunrise, we have that. And we therefore are aligned toward profitable growth.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
(technical difficulty) talking about them.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
As I mentioned, LHP is attractive; they are well capitalized, and therefore they have an attractive borrowing rate. We believe the five-year
floating-rate loan that we've made to help Ardent acquire LHP is a market loan, and is an attractive one at the same time that benefits
the consortium of owners that is trying to move Ardent toward being the best privately owned hospital company in the United States.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Okay. I'm ready. So we are inclined to be the leading premier capital provider to the best healthcare, senior housing, and research
companies in the world. And what we do to do that is to customize capital solutions for specific circumstances and help our customers
achieve their objectives.
And in this particular case, that involved a secured loan -- which has, of course, been part of our business from time immemorial. So the
beauty of our business, again, is we have multiple verticals, six of them; we have -- we are doing business with the consolidators; we are
in a gigantic sector; and we can invest at different parts of the capital structure -- whether it was BMR mezz that we did, or this secured
loan, or sale-leasebacks, etc. And that is part of the formula that we have used to deliver reliable growth and income to investors for so
long.
And so this fits in that pattern. It was a customized solution. It enabled our willingness to step up with this capital; enabled Ardent to get
this deal with certainty, because we provided certainty. And so that's why we did it. And I think it provides great optionality down the
road. And so we feel very happy about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Well, we have the right to, should assets be sold, to be the acquirer of those assets. But of course that involves cooperation amongst all
the parties, should they ever decide to do that. But we are in the right position if that ever comes to pass.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
(laughter) If the assets ever come to market, we will be in a good spot.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Thank you for noticing that increase.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
There haven't been a lot of transactional data to look at, but we haven't seen anything significant to comment upon.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Let's keep going. We have a few more.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Good. Good. Well, remember, we are talking about a sector that's $1 trillion in annual revenues, over $300 billion in real estate value. So
what we've always liked about this business is it's very fragmented; it's very capital-intensive; it's consolidating. And we just need to do a
little bit to be successful. So those are good characteristics.
So, look, we want to make sure we effectively integrate LHP, and it delivers the results that we believe it will. But -- and 80% of this
market is owned by not-for-profits and academic medical centers. And so we like this additional entree into that community, which, of
course, Todd has had his whole career as well.
So we like that aspect to it. So I think over time we want to build a -- as we said, a formidable, high-quality hospital business. And that's
a long game, but the opportunities are quite large.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
All right, two more. Thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Yes, good question. I would say that, again, while the opportunity is large, we are going to remain selective, and in this business we care
deeply about who the managers are. And so we do have multiple ways we can grow this business. I think it's a great advantage to try to
scale Ardent in the way we have some of our other businesses, because you are capturing those synergies and so on. And so that really
 
helps a lot. But over time I would imagine, like our other business lines, that we will have multiple opportunities to grow with potentially
multiple partners.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
And also true that at least one of our triple net escalators has early-year outsized escalators, and that the last one of those would be in
the fourth quarter of this year.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
It would revert to more normalized levels.
So all right. One more.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
The base is being reduced.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Thank you. We believe in a balanced and diversified portfolio that over time, again, will deliver reliable growth and income, as it has. I
would say that in our senior housing operating portfolio, which is about -- a little bit more than a quarter of our business, we have
enjoyed tremendous growth, as you point out. And it is really some of our best assets in the best markets.
And so we like owning those assets. They will go through normal cyclical activity. But at the end of the day, in all the assets we own,
whatever structure we own them in, the assets have to perform, and grow, and produce EBITDARM growth over time.
And so we really like our spot. We like the diversification. We can always modify kind of at the margin or wholesale, as we did with the
SNF business. But on balance we really like the diversification of our business and also the quality of our SHOP portfolio.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - CEO
Thank you for being patient. And to everyone on the phone, if you are still there, thank you for joining us today. We sincerely, as always,
appreciate your interest in our Company. We look forward to seeing you at NAREIT. Thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
I will now turn the call over to Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and CEO of the Company.
 
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Thank you, Ryan. Good morning to all of our shareholders and other participants and welcome to the Ventas year-end  earnings
call.
I'm delighted to be joined this morning by my Ventas colleagues as we discuss our excellent productive year, highlight our continued
execution of our business plan, and discuss our outlook for 2017.
Our results and our  expectations are completely consistent with the preliminary view we shared with you about a month ago. The
Ventas advantage of superior properties, platforms, and people has enabled us to consistently deliver growth in income and outstanding
performance through multiple cycles for almost two decades. Our success has been founded on solid strategic vision, innovative and
rigorous execution, and a stable team with the skill and the will to excel.
With our commitment to diversification and balance in our high-quality portfolio, our financial strength and flexibility, and the insight to
allocate capital wisely in five asset types across the capital structure, we have enjoyed an enduring advantage in value creation. These
principles powered our great year in  as we reinforced our position as the premier provider of capital to leading healthcare and
senior living companies and university-based research institutions. They will also serve us well as we look forward to 2017, despite a
changing macro environment.
I'm happy to share some of our important accomplishments during the year. First, we delivered 16% total return to shareholders,
outperforming the S&P  and the REIT and healthcare REIT indices. Our 17-year compound annual return to shareholders is an
exceptional 25%.
During the year, we grew normalized FFO per share by 5%, at the high end of the guidance range we presented at the beginning of 2016,
and we did so on an even stronger balance sheet than we expected, ending the year with a meaningfully enhanced credit profile. We
worked with our leading operators to grow our same-store cash NOI through operational-excellence initiatives and focus.
We made or committed to investments of nearly $2 billion, including our exciting and accretive $1.5 billion acquisition of a high-quality
new life sciences and innovation center portfolio affiliated with leading universities, academic medical centers, and research institutions.
This deal is a winner, with great yields approaching 7%, attractive real estate, long-term leases with institutional-quality tenants, and a
leading developer partner in Wexford. It also added an important new channel for growth, and we already have a robust pipeline with
significant near-term acquisition and development opportunities.
We also delivered reliable income growth to our shareholders by increasing our dividend by 6%. Ventas has one of the best dividend
growth records in the REIT industry and it remains an important component of the value proposition we offer to shareholders.
To fund our business, we once again demonstrated excellence in capital markets by completing over $2 billion in highly attractive,
long-term senior note and equity offerings. We also generated additional funding sources by accelerating our capital recycling and
portfolio optimization plan, receiving over $600 million in profitable loan repayments and disposition proceeds from non-strategic
assets.
We cooperated with several of our customers to help them achieve their business objectives and increase their cash flow, while at the
same time protecting Ventas and optimizing our portfolio. These mutually beneficial arrangements with Sunrise, Brookdale, Capital
Senior, Kindred, and others demonstrate our commitment to our customers and our ability to find innovative solutions that benefit those
companies. Key among these agreements is the $700 million SNF disposition deal we reached with Kindred to enable Kindred to exit its
skilled nursing segment at a very favorable cash rent yield to Ventas of 7%.
Finally, we also delivered an innovative capital solution to our partners, Ardent and Sam Zell's EGI, to fund their pending acquisition of
high-quality acute care provider LHP and scale the Ardent platform into a $3 billion revenue company operating in six states. With its
major market share, valuable not-for-profit relationship, and strong margins and payer mix, LHP is a great fit for Ardent and we hope to
 
close our investment at the end of the first quarter.
As a result of our  activity and  spinoff of most of our skilled nursing properties, Ventas has created an industry-leading
differentiated portfolio, highly diversified by asset type, business model, and tenants. Specifically, our own portfolio generates 93% of its
revenue from private pay sources. Our SHOP portfolio represents approximately 30% of our net operating income. Our attractive life
science and medical office building segment generates about 25% of our NOI. Our operating and development partners are the best in
their respective businesses. Our triple net leases, representing 42% of our NOI, have virtually no lease expiration through the end of 
and none of our tenants represents more than 10% of our NOI.
And finally, at the end of this year we expect to generate only 1% of our NOI from skilled nursing facilities.
During my  years at Ventas, we have seen a lot of changes in our markets as we've become the premier provider of capital to leading
healthcare and senior housing operators and research institutions. We've navigated successfully through multiple economic, capital
markets, and reimbursement cycles and have continued to grow with strength and integrity.
That said, we now face a period of significant macro volatility and uncertainty. Whether it's major tax reform and its impact on real
estate, modifications to the healthcare system, interest rates, or the unknown contours and economic impacts of potential trade barriers
or immigration trends, none of us knows exactly what's in store for our businesses.
What we do know is that Ventas will operate with intensity, experience, and skill at the dynamic intersection of healthcare and real
estate, two of the largest and growing sectors of GDP. We will focus on managing the risk and capturing the opportunities that a
changing environment presents to us, through development of the right strategies, prudent capital allocation, and excellent innovation
and execution.
That's what the talented and cohesive Ventas team has done successfully for almost two decades. And it's the same thing we intend to
do in  to create value for investors and customers.
Let me share some of our specific priorities for the year ahead. Enhancing our balance sheet through lengthened debt maturities and
increased liquidity to take advantage of opportunities and preserve value in the context of a more volatile and uncertain environment.
Allocating and recycling capital prudently by investing principally in life science, high-quality acute-care hospitals, and customer-related
growth, and by making smart divestitures, including our SNF sale, as a way to further differentiate our excellent portfolio mix. Investing
in our future growth and higher-quality asset base through selective development and redevelopment, especially in our exciting new life
sciences business and premier senior housing and MOB assets with leading developers and tenants like AA-rated Sutter Health care in
San Francisco. Continuing to build on our advantaged platform, including Atria, Ardent, and Wexford. Capitalizing on increasing
convergence we see between healthcare providers, managed-care companies, and senior living operators. Engaging in mutually
supportive and beneficial transactions with our customers. Driving cash flow growth and performance in our high-quality assets to
deliver reliable growth and income. And continuing to align, motivate, and challenge our team, which provides our winning competitive
edge.
It is indisputable that senior living and healthcare real estate is a great place to be. Underpinning our confidence is the incredible market
that will certainly provide long-term opportunities for assets to be owned in the most efficient hands, like ours. The senior population in
the US will grow rapidly, and with it, demand for our real estate sites, where essential home, care, and comfort are provided to
individuals and their families and groundbreaking research is conducted every day.
We also foresee that senior housing and healthcare providers will work with each other and with managed care companies to limit
readmissions, control healthcare costs as our nation ages, and advance the nation's health and wellness.
We expect to be a full participant in these trends, supporting this operating convergence with our capital. So, while we may experience
near-term challenges from peaking deliveries of senior living units in 2017, or potential changes to the Affordable Care Act, the
opportunities in our $1 trillion fragmented market are unmistakable, inexorable, and gigantic. That is one reason we continue to see
 
significant interest in all of our asset types, from private equity, pension, and sovereign wealth funds, at robust pricing.
In the midst of a highly dynamic environment, we are confident that we can continue to capitalize on these opportunities. We have the
properties, platforms, and people to continue leading our sector. The entire Ventas team is excited and ready to deliver in  and
beyond.
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
We are excited about our investment in Ardent, which, as Bob said, is performing very well. We are executing on the game plan, which is
to scale that platform as we hope to fund the acquisition of LHP in  and LHP is a real gem, so I think our strategy of acquiring really
high-quality assets, scaling the business, and we are very focused on executing on that this year.
And in addition, we have said all along that we are going to be very highly selective, which we have been and will continue to be, but we
have a gigantic secular opportunity and we will continue having conversations with people. And should there be additional opportunities
that we think will create value, we will certainly pursue them. So that's where we stand on the business right now.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
And I think one of the real benefits that Bob has brought to this -- to our senior housing business in working with our care providers is
really understanding pricing and where we are making money and making sure we are pricing appropriately for the care and the home
that seniors are receiving.
And so, really deconstructing what the pricing should be and matching it with the services that are being provided and the quality of the
residence that's been provided, so clicking, double clicking, triple clicking into pricing and making sure that we're matching pricing with
needs and services.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I'll take that, Michael. Good morning. So as we talked about before, Kindred's spent a year or two preparing to move into patient criteria,
which Select Medical, another LTAC provider, went on successfully almost a year prior. So Kindred was highly prepared to make this
transition.
And essentially, Kindred has been adopting a strategy of really identifying patients who are eligible for LTAC reimbursement, as well as
developing a strategy where they can care profitably for what are called site-neutral patients. So, I have every confidence that Kindred
will be able to go into criteria in accordance with its expectations and work through the reimbursement and mitigate some of those
impacts as we look to the back half of 2017. So, that's a shorthand way to describe a very complex transition.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Right. I mean, what we've talked about in the past is over time we would expect it to be maybe  basis points,  to  basis points, all
else equal, but there will be a trough and then, of course, they will elevate out of that in the back half of  and into 2018.
So, in and around that neighborhood and, again, very expected, I guess. We have confidence in Kindred's ability to execute and we have
good long-term lease arrangements with them as we go through the transition.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Sure. First of all, we are very excited to be in this business with the university-based R&D tenants, and it's UPenn Medical, it's Yale, it's
Duke, Wake Forest, really leading institutions who account for 10% of university-based R&D spending in the US.
And I think the opportunity -- and, also, Wexford is the name in this business, so being partnered with them, I think, is a real advantage.
And the business opportunity is really very much like the MOB opportunity, for example, which is to say we have these big institutions.
They have a lot of demands on their capital and they don't need to own or build all of their real estate.
So we have this great nucleus of assets now. We have a great development partner who is renowned among the universities for what they
do, and the business plan is to scale that platform by doing more business with the universities who are already in our tenant base and to
do business with additional leading R&D universities, very simple.
And what's exciting about this acquisition is that, A, the assets we acquired are excellent and they are performing well. And then, B, the
demand for what we are doing is very strong. And so, we see additional follow-on opportunities in the pipeline with one very well-known
university. We also, as Bob said, have green-lighted a couple other projects, one adjacent to UPenn in downtown Philadelphia, another
one related to WashU. And the pipeline is very robust.
And so, we think this can be a great channel for growth for us. It's really come in sort of fast and furious, and our job is to make sure we
are doing good underwriting and that we are available to build this as a real growth opportunity for the Company. So, we are excited
about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Of course, it always depends on the amount of pre-leasing, etc., that is -- and what the credit quality is, things like that. But, in general,
we would be looking at 7% to 9% yields.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I do. And if you look at Ardent pro forma with LHP, they will be in six states, as I mentioned. Only two of those are Medicaid expansion
states.
You know, our general view is that the potential impact on the Company as a whole would, potentially, assuming no mitigation, be less
than the potential synergies from the transaction. And so, we have a built-in buffer there, as well as obviously as the landlord we have
over three times coverage. But just at the operating level, we think that what we are doing is really smart and we have a built-in cushion
there, should there be any impact from a change to the Affordable Care Act.
You know, I do think it's interesting and I caution investors not to equate equity operator prices with the reliability of lease streams, but I
would note that if you look at, like, an HCA, for example, their stock price is $66. Last year at this time, it was $84 -- $83, $84 now. I
mean, I think there is recognition that these good companies will continue to be good, and what these excellent operators do over the
decades is they know how to pull the levers in this business to create positive cash flow, and that's what we would expect Ardent to do
with a very seasoned CEO that's been through this for three decades. So we feel good about it.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes. Well, good. We are really focused on closing LHP and are excited about that because it's a gem. And what comes with it, as you
point out, are these really valuable not-for-profit relationships with academic medical centers and other large not for profits, like
Ascension. And so, that is one incremental step toward this gigantic opportunity, and again we'll continue to have conversations, but our
focus right now is really closing LHP and then we'll take it from there.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Well, should there be ACA pressures, which, honestly, I think there may be a lot of easier policy priorities to accomplish in the near term,
but should there be something, I think they will be, first of all, pushed out, and, secondly, we have -- we announced that there would be
significant synergies in the merger between the two companies, which, again, only has two of the six states in Medicaid expansion. And
so, we think that's more than enough cushion should there be impact from an ACA repeal.
 
But the key thing is what is the replacement. The replacement may be fine and so it may have no impact. The key thing is what is the
replacement, and, of course, we would expect that that replacement would not take effect for one to multiple years.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Well, as we've said, we are going to be very selective and we're going to play at that top percent of operators that have -- and assets that
have significant market share, that have quality outcomes, that are efficient, etc., and so those conversations will continue over time, and
it's a really gigantic opportunity. It's a $1 trillion revenue business, the acute care business.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Really, I talked to Todd, who is here with me, and we were at the JPMorgan healthcare conference, and, honestly, the hospital acute care
providers are going about their business, which is creating efficiencies, driving quality, all the things that they were doing before. And
many of the changes that are in the healthcare system are so already embedded in what they are doing I would say that that is really
what they are focused on, execution of their business.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Right, so I would say that, again, let me just repeat a little bit of what I said, which is that the acute care providers are going about the
business of driving efficiencies, quality, improvements, M&A, etc., and they are some of the biggest customers, obviously, in the MOB
business and we have a really high-quality portfolio that's affiliated with some of the top hospitals.
And so, while uncertainty generally is -- can delay decision making and things like that, and we may see some of that this year, I do think
that we are well positioned to continue creating stable, growing cash flows in our portfolio.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
So, I think what's really interesting is that we are seeing huge continued interest at very robust pricing, as I mentioned, across our asset
types.
 
And it's coming from pension funds, it's coming from sovereigns, it's coming from private equity, and I think those people -- that is a sign
that people value our assets and they see the big opportunity in our business. When we talk about being disciplined capital allocators, as
you know, we have always been about doing things that create value for our investors and hopefully being good partners with our
customers at the same time. And so, I would not conflate those two words.
I think we are disciplined when we think about our cost of capital, when we think about risk-adjusted returns, and when we think about
what is going to create value. And that's always been a hallmark of Ventas' and that's partly why we have such a good track record of
total return. That's why we have a good track record of capital allocation and growth in income is we take that very seriously and we think
about deals on their own and also how they affect the balance and mix in our portfolio.
So, we will be disciplined; we've always been disciplined and take all those factors into account as we continue to make investments.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Okay, thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
It's very minimal. For example, if there was a fire and the building was closed down or a flood or something like that, that type of thing.
Very minimal.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Plus they have good hockey.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Multiple permutations.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
If you look at the reconciliation for 2017.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes. Again, I think the pricing is really an enhanced way to appropriately have the operators be paid for the care and services that they
are providing and to match pricing with the value that the families and the seniors are getting, and we are doing that more effectively, I
would say, in 2017. And Bob will take the rest of that.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Okay?
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Well said.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I can and would encourage you to listen to Kindred's call later because they will give a more fulsome update because they are on point
there. Our understanding is that it's going well and there's a lot of interest, as I talked about earlier, that there is a lot of interest in all of
our asset classes, and this would presumably be no exception. And so, we are anticipating on balance a second-half execution of that
transaction.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Accelerate it, yes, yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
If we have a what? I'm sorry.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Okay, so in those numbers, we're talking about the selective redevelopment and development program we talked about. We would
include within that ground-up development, like our Class A downtown San Francisco medical office building. It would be our
newly-opened senior living community, Foster City, in northern California. It would include any life sciences, as we mentioned, potential
developments with UPenn or WashU that we talked about, and it would include some redevelopments that we've done over time where
there is significant impact on the community while we, for example, add a life guidance or memory care unit or, you know, build another
wing or convert parts of the building to other uses, those types of things.
And, you know, we tend to -- as John said, we tend to look at 7%-plus returns, depending again on the profile of the tenancy, the
pre-leasing, the credit quality in the ground-up developments. I mentioned in the San Francisco MOB we've got AA-rated credit. It's a
substantially pre-leased building. That's one type of yield. As we are doing these redevelopment projects, I'd say high single digits, low
double digits unlevered expectations for returns.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I mean, principally they are redos of things or additions of things, yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
That generate a return, yes. Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
We are agnostic. We want our operators to be great at what they do, leaders in their markets, provide good quality care, and operate with
a lot of integrity and compliance. So that's what we like. And we have -- the lion's share of our portfolio, as we've reshaped our business
over the last couple of years, is with those leading operators.
So we have a few more questions. I'm sorry, but we have to hustle. We have a few more questions that we still want to take, John. We'll
be happy to talk -- okay, thank you.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
There could be. There could -- again, when we give the $1 billion, it's pretty straightforward. We got $700 million that we are funding on
the Ardent acquisition of LHP, and then we have $300 million of other. Some are acquisitions of stabilized assets. Some are
developments of life science that we've talked about.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes. I think the best risk-adjusted segments are the areas we've identified for capital allocation, which will be really high-quality
hospitals; definitely growth in the life sciences segment, principally by development, but also by potential acquisitions and follow-on
opportunities; and customer-oriented activities. That's where we have been focusing the last couple of years and that's where we'll
continue to focus and that's where we think we have the best return, in addition to, of course, the development and redevelopment that
we just talked about.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I think that the trimming -- so we are talking, I think it's important to identify this capital recycling that we are doing in  of $900
million of dispositions and then $1 billion of investments, so the $900 million is straightforward, too. It's the Kindred $700 million and
then some drips and drabs, $88 million we just closed on some senior housing with a customer that was a good, mutually beneficial
deal. So that covers about $800 million of it, and the rest is kind of drips and drabs to get to the $900 million, and I've already gone over
the $1 billion. So that's the capital recycling that we've talked about that really is value creating.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
The divestitures were really with one of our customers. They were underperforming assets, so we were able to sell those at a fixed yield
and increase their cash flow and improve our portfolio so everybody was happy. So that was something that was a unique sort of solution
that worked for both companies.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
He is.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Yes, nonstrategic assets that we thought we got a really good price for and that were more valuable to the tenant user than they were to
us. So, a good transaction there.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Tayo, you are batting cleanup.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Good, okay. So Brookdale, as you know, is an important customer of Ventas and they are an important industry participant with 80,000
employees and 100,000 seniors that they care for every day. We have a good relationship with them. We have excellent agreements
between the companies and we continue to try to work with Brookdale, as we do with all of our customers, to continue to enhance and
improve our mutual businesses.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Tayo, how long have you known us?
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
All kidding aside, we care deeply about the success of Brookdale and we will continue to try to work with them, as we have with our small
disposition deal that we have in the market and as we have with our other customers, to try to continue making them a success.
 
Debra Cafaro Ventas, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Thank you. With that, I think we're going to close the call. We are going to thank everyone for their patience and we really appreciate your
tuning in to hear us talk about our great year and what we hope to accomplish in  on your behalf. So we look forward to seeing you,
and thank you again for your interest and attention.
 