D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
 
Executive Chairman, President and CEO; Todd Strubbe, Executive Vice President and COO; and George Kilguss, Executive Vice President
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
Thanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter for VeriSign. First quarter results are in line
with our objectives of offering security and stability to our customers while generating profitable growth and providing long-term value
to our shareholders.
We reported revenue of $289 million, up 2.4% year-over-year and delivered strong financial performance, including non-GAAP EPS of
$0.96, up 12% year-over-year, and $139 million in free cash flow. As part of managing our business during the first quarter, we continued
our share repurchase program by repurchasing 1.8 million shares for $150 million.
 
Our financial position is strong with $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. We
continually evaluate the overall cash and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential
share repurchases.
At the end of March, the domain name base in .com and .net was 143.6 million, consisting of 128.4 million names for .com and 15.2
million names for .net. The domain name base increased by 1.4 million net names during the first quarter after processing 9.5 million
new gross registrations. The U.S. market contributed to the better-than-expected performance. Although renewal rates are not fully
measurable until  days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the first quarter of  will be approximately
72.2%. This preliminary rate compares to 74.4% achieved in the first quarter of 2016.
In the fourth quarter of 2016, the final renewal rate was 67.6% compared with 73.3% for the same quarter of 2015. As noted in our prior
conference calls, the portion of registrations associated with the China names surge that occurred in the first quarter of  continued
to renew at lower-than-historic first-time renewal rates in the first and second quarter of  and are contributing to slightly higher
deletions in the first half of 2017.
In addition, Q2 tends to have slightly lower seasonal new gross registrations than Q1. Based on these and other factors, we now expect
full year  domain name base growth of between 1% and 2.5%, with a change of the domain name base for the second quarter of
 of flat to an increase of 0.4 million net registrations. As many of you are aware, we are in the process of reviewing the .net registry
agreement with ICANN as the current term expands on -- sorry, ends on June 30. On April 20, ICANN posted the new .net registry
agreement for public comment, which is open until May 30th.
From our perspective, the posted agreement does not contain changes to the material terms, such as the fees paid to ICANN, the
renewal rights or the 6-year term. We believe we're on track for renewal prior to the expiration of the current term agreement.
Finally, as discussed during our prior earnings call, we decided it was in the best interest of the company to sell our iDefense business.
The iDefense sale was completed at the start of the second quarter and VeriSign continues as a customer to benefit from the threat
intelligence information provided by iDefense.
And now, I'd like to turn the call over to George.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
Thank you, George. In closing, during the first quarter, we expanded our work to protect, grow and manage the business while continuing
our focus to provide long-term value to our shareholders. We think that our focus on profitable growth and disciplined execution will
extend the long trend lines of growth in our top and bottom lines and allow us to continue our consistent track record of generating and
returning value to our shareholders in the most efficient manner.
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
They were not material. I think there might be some more information available in the next quarter since the sale actually closed in Q2,
but the divestiture of iDefense was -- the sale of iDefense was not a material event.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
I think you're seeing the final sort of move out of the China search names. There were some that carried over into April, and we're seeing
the final deletions of the so-called China search names from late  and 2016.
 
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, Executive Chairman, CEO and President
No substantive update. We are continuing to cooperate with the Department of Justice relative to the CID that we discussed last quarter.
Those interactions and dialogues have been constructive. We're producing documents and information and answering the questions as
needed. So it's an ongoing process. Nothing substantive to update now. But, of course, as soon as there is, we'll share it with you.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
 
Executive Chairman, President and CEO; Todd Strubbe, Executive Vice President and COO; and George Kilguss, Executive Vice President
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
Thanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter for VeriSign. Second quarter results are in line
with our objectives of offering security and stability to our customers while generating profitable growth and providing long-term value
to our shareholders.
We reported revenue of $289 million, up 0.7% year-over-year and delivered strong financial performance, including non-GAAP EPS of
$1.05 and $171 million in free cash flow. During the second quarter, we continued our share repurchase program by repurchasing 1.7
 
million shares for $150.5 million. Our financial position is strong, with $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at
the end of the quarter. We continually evaluate the overall cash and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our
cash, including potential share repurchases.
At the end of June, the domain name base in .com and .net was $144.3 million, consisting of 129.2 million names for .com and 15.1 million
names for .net. The domain name base increased by 0.68 million net names during the second quarter after processing 9.2 million new
gross registrations. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until  days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the
renewal rate for the second quarter of  will be 73.9%. This preliminary rate compares to 73.8% achieved in the second quarter of
2016.
We are updating the full year  domain name base growth guidance to be between 2% and 2.75%. Also, we expect the domain name
base to increase during the third quarter between 0.8 million to 1.3 million registrations.
I'll comment now on a few recent events. In June, the .net registry agreement between VeriSign and ICANN was successfully renewed.
The new agreement does not contain changes to the material terms such as pricing terms, renewal rights, the 6-year term or fees paid to
ICANN.
Also in June, we issued $550 million of senior unsecured notes with a 4.75% coupon maturing in  years. This offering closed in early
July, and we're pleased with the result of this issuance.
Lastly, today, we announced an increase in the annual wholesale fee for a .net domain name registration as allowed by our agreement
with ICANN. As of February 1, 2018, the annual wholesale fee for a .net domain name registration will increase from $8.20 to $9.02. We
believe this positions .net competitively in the marketplace while keeping .net price lower than other popular legacy TLDs.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to George.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
Thank you, George. In closing, during the second quarter, we continued our work to protect, grow and manage the business while
continuing our focus on providing long-term value to our shareholders.
We have marked some significant milestones since our last call. In addition to renewing the .net registry agreement with ICANN for
another  years, earlier this month, the company surpassed  continuous years of 100% availability in the .com and .net DNS. This
record is the result of the expertise of our people and our specialized infrastructure.
We believe our focus on profitable growth and disciplined execution will extend the long trend lines of growth in our top and bottom line
and allow us to continue our consistent track record of generating and returning value to our shareholders in the most efficient manner.
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
I think probably the biggest contributors there are or there is some strengthening in the economy. There's more economic activity, which
generally contributes to domain name growth. But I also think the strong brands that common net represents, their strong, recognized,
trusted global brands are showing their strength and contributed to that good performance as well.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
Well, is that -- let me see if I understand your question properly. By international markets, I can point to one thing that has changed. We
did mention in several past quarters that the so-called China surge, which began in late  and continued into  including the
second quarter, of course, affected renewals for 2017. We believe now that, that effect, the China effect, so to speak, has pretty much
pushed through the system. So I think that might be a factor. Certainly, some activity I would point to in terms of the international
market. There is general strong growth in the international market. But as George pointed out, some growth in the U.S. market in the
first quarter continued into the second quarter as well. So there are good signs. There's general growth outside the U.S. and an economic
activity in the U.S. has contributed to some continuing growth here.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO, Executive Chairman
Well, there's really no update to provide on .web at this point. With respect to our interactions with the Department of Justice, we
continue to cooperate with DOJ as it pertains to the CID we discussed last quarter. That dialogue is constructive -- has been constructive.
We produced the documents with information. We'd answered questions as needed. And we're meeting with the department. So that's
an ongoing process and beyond that, there's really nothing to say at this point.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - President, CEO & Executive Chairman
 
Executive Chairman, President and CEO; Todd Strubbe, Executive Vice President and COO; and George Kilguss, Executive Vice President
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Thanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter for VeriSign. Third quarter results are in line
with our objectives of offering security and stability to our customers while generating profitable growth and providing long-term value
to our shareholders.
We reported revenue of $292 million, up 1.7% year-over-year and delivered strong financial performance, including non-GAAP EPS of $1
and $153 million in free cash flow.
 
During the third quarter, we continued our share repurchase program by repurchasing 1.5 million shares for $147 million. Our financial
position is strong with $2.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. We continually evaluate
the overall cash and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential share repurchases.
At the end of September, the domain name base in .com and .net totaled 145.8 million, consisting of 130.8 million names for .com and 
million names for .net. The domain name base increased by 1.47 million net names during the third quarter after processing 8.9 million
new gross registrations. Gross additions during the quarter benefited from continued strength from U.S.-based registrars.
Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until  days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the third
quarter of  will be 74.3%. This preliminary rate compares to 73.0% achieved in the third quarter of 2016. We expect an increase to
the domain name base during the fourth quarter of between 0.4 million to 0.9 million registrations, which is consistent with the full year
 domain name base growth rate of 2.8% to 3.1%.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to George.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Thanks, George. In closing, during the third quarter, we continued our work to protect, grow and manage the business while continuing
our focus on providing long-term value to our shareholders. We think our focus on profitable growth and disciplined execution will
extend the long trend lines of growth in our top and bottom line and allow us to continue our consistent track record of generating and
returning value to our shareholders in the most efficient manner.
We will now take your questions. So operator, we're ready for the first question.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - President, CEO & Executive Chairman
The update is really the same. There's no new news. Although there is activity, the process is ongoing. We are continuing to cooperate
with the Justice Department. Regarding the CID that you asked about, there's an ongoing constructive document -- dialogue. We're
producing documents and information. But beyond that, there's nothing new to say at this point. Of course, as soon as there is, we'll let
you know.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - President, CEO & Executive Chairman
I don't know of any direct relationship between people purchasing Bitcoin and domain names. I can tell you that we do report on trends
in domain name registration and that Bitcoin trends frequently, consistently and often. So people are registering names related to
Bitcoin and cryptocurrency and those types of things. So we do see those, and we do report those registration trends. Beyond that, I don't
think there's any unusual activity that we have to report.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
 
are: Jim Bidzos, Executive Chairman, President and CEO; Todd Strubbe, Executive Vice President and COO; and George Kilguss,
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Thanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter, which capped a strong  for VeriSign.
Fourth quarter and full year results were in line with our objectives of offering security and stability to our customers while generating
profitable growth and providing long-term value to our shareholders.
For 2017, VeriSign delivered strong financial performance, reporting $1,165,000,000 in revenues, resulting in $653 million in free cash
flow and generating full year  non-GAAP operating margins of 65.3%.
 was a strong year for the .com and .net domain name base in which the company processed 36.7 million registrations and finished
 
the year with 146.4 million names. During the year, we marked more than  years of uninterrupted availability of the VeriSign DNS for
.com and .net. Also last year, we renewed the .net registry agreement for another  years until 2023.
During the fourth quarter, we continued our share repurchase program by repurchasing 1.3 million shares for $145 million. During the full
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Thank you, George.  was another solid year for VeriSign. There was further expansion of the domain name base and revenues. We
generated an efficiently returned value to shareholders. We renewed the .net registry agreement for another  years until 2023. And we
 
marked more than  years of uninterrupted availability of the VeriSign DNS for .com and .net.
Finally, earlier this year, we disclosed that the U.S. Department of Justice notified us that it closed its investigation regarding the .web
top level domain. We continued our work to protect, grow and manage the business while continuing our focus on providing long-term
value to our shareholders. We think our focus on profitable growth and disciplined execution will extend the long trend lines of growth in
our top and bottom line and allow us to continue our consistent track record of generating and returning value to our shareholders in the
most efficient manner.
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
I don't think I have at the tip of my fingers the precise numbers. But I don't believe that they're material. I have seen a lot of activity in the
secondary markets of trading in .com registrations that have crypto in them. But I don't think that there any meaningful direct
contributions to new .net registrations in the numbers that we reported. And there's just a huge amount of interest in cryptocurrencies
and Bitcoin, as you know, now that it's hit the exchanges. And what we've seen, I would say specifically, is a spike in value in the
secondary market of .com names with any multiple keyword names with crypto in them.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Yes, I think it's just too early at this point to discuss any details about go-to-market or launch plans for .web. There's an ICANN process
that we're now engaged in with the Department of Justice having closed their investigation of .web. And when that process completes,
I'm sure we'll have a lot more to say. But at this point, it would just be premature.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Yes. So we don't guide renewal rates by country. As mentioned, the cohort that was originally from the  China surge, that cohort was
about 1.4 million names coming into the year. And that renewal rate was probably, on a blended basis, maybe about 40% for that cohort.
So we did have a portion of those names come out. However, we were anticipating that. We did comment on that last quarter. And that
was in the guidance that we gave and we fell within the range of the guidance. But most of that cohort now is, I would say, through the
system for many material names. And I would expect renewal rates to go back to more normalized rates.
 
D. James Bidzos VeriSign, Inc. - Founder, President, CEO & Executive Chairman
Well, so first of all, I guess just to remind everybody on the call, in late September 2016, NTIA approved the .com Registry Agreement to
be extended to November 30, 2024. At that time, NTIA chose not to extend the Cooperative Agreement. So it is currently scheduled to
terminate on November  in 2018. Whether to extend that Cooperative Agreement or not is NTIA's decision and their process, and so
can't comment on that. They do have the right to conduct a public interest review for the sole purpose of determining whether or not
they'll exercise their right to extend the term of the Cooperative Agreement. Now one update that is new since the last time we talked is
that David Redl was confirmed as the Assistant Secretary and Administrator of the NTIA in November of 2017. Unfortunately, that's all
the update I can give you there. We can't comment on Mr. Redl's appointment or the NTIA in regard to their process related to the
Cooperative Agreement. That's theirs, not ours. As soon as we can, we'll share whatever information we do have though.
 