Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Thanks, Lee. Good morning, everybody. The first quarter was another example of our team achieving a high level of organic revenue
growth, which remains the most important measure of our vitality as an organization. This growth was a product of our traditional
multilevel growth plan, including: first, the development of new customers for existing solutions, such as was seen in our claims analytics
platform; secondly, the cross-selling of our existing solutions to existing customers as seen in our imagery solutions and upstream oil
and gas analytics; and thirdly, new products, including insurance data hosting.
Over the last  days, I was particularly impressed by the quality of our engagement with many large leading customers, resulting in
real-time business wins and opportunities into the future. We continue to enjoy visits from the most senior leaders of some of our biggest
customers, who are looking to get closer to our pipeline of innovations. We held the largest gathering in our history for customers of our
catastrophe analytics solutions and were impressed again with the level of engagement and input from our clients. Our results in the
energy vertical in terms of renewals exceeded our expectations.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So we're always thinking about how to present our products to our customers. And in general, you should understand our pricing to
be value-based pricing. So we're trying to understand the ROIs that customers generate based on using our solutions and then
essentially determine what fraction of that we can sustainably hold on to in terms of how we price into the customers. And so really it's a
function of how much value the next data set, the next software solution is generating, and it's on that basis that we put the price out
there. There's always a price effect in everything that we do. It's seen across all the verticals. And anything which is a multiyear
subscription, it's generally the case that those contracts will have price escalation year-over-year. So pricing is a part of our overall
organic rate of revenue growth. It's not the greatest part. It's a contributor, but it's well below 50% of what's going on in terms of our
organic revenue growth.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes, so -- and Mark, please feel free to jump in if you have any additional thoughts. I'm going to broaden out your question just a little bit.
It's true across essentially all of our customers that one of the options that they have, of course, and they usually take advantage of the
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
It has to be, I don't know, mid-single-digits probably, 5-ish to 6-ish.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So maybe in reverse order, Tim. We're kind of right in the middle of it right now, so I think we're sort of at the investment level that is
required. It has both effects that you were talking about. So first of all, there's a, as you would imagine, a massive amount of data that's a
part of what Wood Mackenzie does. But one of the things that a modern data analytic company can do is actually more highly automate
data extraction, data cleansing and then data integration so that all of the data sets come together in a way that they're easily presented
to the analytic layer, you can build new products. And so there is an efficiency effect there, which we expect to enjoy as we move through
this 2.0 migration. But then the other part of it is that, and I'm now alluding back to what I said in my comments, one of the big things
that's happened in the energy space is that everything has sped up. If what you're trying to do is to harness competitive intelligence and
make your investments and run your operations, everything has just sped up, and that's largely the effect of the United States. Basically,
sort of the old form was an offshore big development, which would have hundreds of millions of dollars of investment and  to 10-year
planning and execution cycles to get into business. Now in the unconventionals in the lower 48, you can basically move a rig and  days
later have a 1,500-foot well. And so planning cycles in a world like that are measured in weeks. And so one of the things that is necessary
in that world, if you're going to stay on top of competitive intelligence and have really fresh and relevant solutions, is you've just got to
speed up. And that's one of -- that will be one of the major effects of WoodMac 2.0. The other one is actually interacting even more
deeply with customers' own decisioning platforms, more melding of their data with our data with other forms of data that we don't even
use today. And so the kind of the overall point, which is to help our customers make better decisions faster, that's always been the point
and will continue to be the point. But by degrees, what we put out there will actually look different and be more valuable because of data
integration plus the deeper connectivity between our data sets and the customers' data sets.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Right. So Lisa is not here, but I feel comfortable answering on her behalf. We, as you would imagine, spend a lot of time together talking
about all this. The path to growth is going to be the same as it has been. I called out in my remarks that  of the streams -- revenue
streams at Argus that will be particularly meaningful are media effectiveness, regulatory solutions and data hosting. And so to really be
a function of each of those streams finding their mark, we're -- at this point,  of the top  credit card issuers in the English-speaking
world are in our data consortium and customers for our solutions. And so just the building of the consortium now, it's really down to
additional countries, I guess, is the way that I would put it, and we're having some success there. But there have been moments over the
course of the last  years where a pretty good contributor to growth was more issuers coming into the consortium. At this point, that's a
little more established. So that part of the revenue stack can grow, but it won't grow quite as fast. And so it's those other  components.
And that's not really a change from where we've been. So we're really down to execution, and I referenced a timing effect as it related to
the first quarter of 2018. But as I mentioned, the long-term view is that this is a business which, for  years through 2017, grew in the low
to mid-teens. There's -- the depth and the power of our data asset is greater in  than it was in  at the beginning of that time
period. The customer demography has not really changed, so we see a lot of opportunity for this business to grow.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So you -- there are actually  things here, Manav, and you kind of put them together a little bit, so let me pull them apart for you.
WoodMac 2.0 and the breakout solutions are not the same thing. Breakout solutions are things that we're presenting to customers that
they find valuable, which operate in their environments and help them to run their businesses and make progress. And Lee referenced
those at some length. Those are relatively large categories of spending. The good news is that each of those, whether it's subsurface or
it's power and renewables, we actually find good growth associated with those. We're very happy. Having sort of launched these things
and given where they are in their progress, the margins will improve as they grow. The margins are not as high as the other things that
we do today, and so that's -- you have both of those effects at work. WoodMac 2.0 is something different. That's about capabilities.
That's about WoodMac being a 21st-century, fully equipped, modern data analytic machine. And the data analytic work that WoodMac
has done historically has been very unique and the content has been very unique. But the actual data analytic methods have not really
been as strong or as advanced as those in other parts of Verisk. So our thesis, even when we got started and here we are now, is that the
rest of Verisk could apply methods and help make progress. It's taking a while, and I referenced that  would be sort of a moment of
milestones with regard to all of that, but that will be the ongoing work. You just need to separate those  forms of investment.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. Actually, there's one other point I want to make around profitability levels at WoodMac, and that is you can actually see our
philosophy at Verisk at work if you look at WoodMac over the last several years. And what I mean by that is there was a remarkable
discontinuity in the end market in the energy space, remarkable. The industry, globally, meaning our customers, shed hundreds -- about
350,000 jobs globally. The choice that we made was that we're in this for the long haul. So we didn't slash headcounts. We didn't
penalize our people by saying, "Okay. There was this downturn, but you're just going to get paid a lot less because we're groping for a
near-term margin impact." And I think we've been rewarded for that. Our performance relative to referenced competitors in the space
with respect to growth has been considerably better. But this is our philosophy at Verisk. As much as our business runs on intellectual
capital, and it does, a lot of that is tied to our people and the greatest part of our cost structure is our people. And we're going to manage
for the long term, and that is absolutely what we've done as we've moved through with WoodMac. And so you can see that in terms of the
choices that we've made in light of a very difficult external environment. We thought long term and we remained investment-minded,
and that's what we'll always do at Verisk.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
I think you're just reading that wrong. We just -- at the start of the year, I think we want to give a sense as to what -- where things look
contextually. Nothing has, I think, changed in that outlook. We just are not providing a specific estimate for 2018. We are working
towards our targets. You can see that we successfully achieved that in the first quarter. We've done that consistently over the past few
quarters, and we think that should be the basis for investor and analyst perspective on 2018.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
And Mark, maybe just picking up on the point, maybe you and I could dialogue about  things real quick. So one is in the ACE-Chubb
situation, is it fair to say that actually we're now looking at cross-sell opportunities that could probably actually cause the combined
account to be bigger than it was, maybe even materially bigger than it was when -- than before the time when they were separate
entities. Is that fair?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
And maybe get your view on one other thing, which is the announced AXA, XL Catlin put together. Kind of my view is I think that that's
probably actually good news for us because AXA, a more global company, has made relatively less use of what we do to date. XL Catlin
has been a very strong, well-established customer. I think there will be flow from -- or there could be flow from XL Catlin into AXA. What
do you see?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. And Mark, let me invite your comments. I think the answer to inflection point is I think more in terms of curves than steps when we --
as we sort of build all of this. So I do think that the data exchange becomes just that much more inevitable as it grows, so you do have
that effect. On the other hand, you've got -- sort of every OEM seems to be its own special case and the rate at which they look at these
opportunities and what they think they're going to get out of vehicle telemetry just seems to vary from OEM to OEM. So I think it's
something short of kind of a -- sort of a herd movement, but I do think that sort of the next contributor is that much closer to hand
because of having reached roughly 1/3 of the market, as Mark has described. And the revenue side of it will look like a curve also
because, as the data deepens, it'll just be that much more compelling an increasingly larger number of insurers to ones who access the
data and build their process around these data. So I would encourage you to think in terms of curves rather than step changes. But it is
very encouraging, and I compliment our team for having gotten this far. I mean, we are clearly the leader in this category, hands down. In
fact, I don't really actually think anybody else is really in this category. It seems to belong to us.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
So operator, I think that concludes our session for today.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Okay. Well, I just wanted to say before we sign off, thank you, everybody, for your interest and for the questions today. I hope and I believe
that the expanded presentation that we're providing you is giving you a deeper look into the company. We're very happy for you to have
that deeper look because we're actually very confident in where our business sits and where it's going, and so we want everybody to kind
of appreciate the dynamics of our business. And so I imagine that our conversations going forward will just be enriched by the greater
disclosures. So thanks for your interest, and we'll talk to many of you in the coming days and weeks and look forward to it.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Bye for now.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Thanks, Lee. Good morning, everybody. I'm pleased overall with the second quarter results we are reporting today and with the progress
occurring across our business.
I recently had  weeks in Europe with some of our largest customers and our leadership teams and come away encouraged about our
situation and forward opportunities.
Let me summarize some of what I saw and heard. On the insurance front, we are a different company in the London and U.K. markets
than we were just  year ago. Across many meetings, it became clear that our customers see and understand the logic of the new
solutions we have brought to market through a combination of organic developments and acquisition.
On several occasions, I heard customers comment on the unique position we have achieved in the U.K. along with their anticipation of
newly integrated offerings from Verisk. I hear customers referring to Verisk as a partner more frequently than in the past. They are asking
for deeper dives into our solution sets and pipeline of new developments. Virtually every conversation with customers was
forward-looking in nature, which is a good sign for our future.
I also met with the senior leadership of some of Europe's largest energy businesses. I heard continuing affirmation of the must-have
quality of the data and the analytics we provide.
Equally encouraging were discussions around the need to transform commercial decision-making in the oil and gas industry through the
application of modern data analytic methods.
This point is deeply felt by the energy companies who are awash in technical data but have yet to realize the promise of optimized
commercial decision-making.
A goal of our Energy business customers is planning cycles measured in weeks rather than years, which can only be achieved with a level
of cost and productivity benchmarking, which has previously been unseen.
Our customers in Europe and indeed, everywhere, see us as a natural partner in helping them achieve this transformation.
I spent an enjoyable afternoon in the offices of one of Argus' leading U.K. customers. It was great to spend time not only with our
customer, but also our several person team who sit in the customers' offices, representing a wonderful level of intimacy.
After reviewing the considerable value attached to our current solutions, the conversation with our executive sponsor then moved to
future opportunities to harness machine learning to amplify their analytics. Again, the conversation was primarily about the future and
how our  companies can partner.
A consistent message across customer meetings is that some of the most important work being done by our customers is harnessing
data and analytics to improve their business results, and they see Verisk as a unique partner in doing so.
With that, let me hand it over to Mark for some comments on the insurance vertical.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
When we think about international opportunity as it relates to the insurance vertical, first of all, it's not just about the London and U.K.
markets. We're actually pushing out in a number of European and Asian markets. I was highlighting London and U.K. partly because
that's where I just was with the customers, but also partly because that is the largest part of our non-North American footprint today. I
don't really see a lot of headwinds. I can tell you what the work consists of. The work consists of taking the methods that we've developed
in the United States tailoring -- tuning them -- not tailoring them, tuning them to the local markets and then infusing them with a lot of
good local data. We know how to do that. That is, in fact, what we're presenting in these overseas markets today. So it's organic. It feels
very natural, and what we need and what we have are great people on the ground in these markets that understand the local customers
and local conditions and can just cause our solutions to be their most relevant and make clear to the customers the value that they
represent. But it's not -- it's mostly white space for us. I mean, Verisk, as you know, is about order of magnitude, 25% non-U. S. today.
And it's a big world out there. So this is a long, sustained march for us. But I don't think of it in terms of headwinds. I think of it in terms of
great people on the ground locally, taking what we're already good at and making it relevant.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Well, yes. It's Scott here. I'll just add that kind of the -- sort of the deep drumbeat where the cost side of our business is concerned, really
hinges on a couple of things. One is, as Lee was saying, the nature of the computing infrastructure inside of our company is going to
change and we think, productively. It only costs you about $40,000 to source a raw petabyte of storage capacity in the cloud today, only
$40,000. I mean, that's remarkable. And so as we move from on-prem to not on-prem, I think we're going to naturally see productivity
there. Another opportunity for us that is at work now and I think we will make somewhat more use of into the future, will be to diversify
where our talent comes from. There are talented people all around the globe. And at the moment, at least, there are asymmetries in
terms of what highly competent professionals get paid. We've made less use of that than we might have. And then  other things real
quick. One is, just sort of the strong and consistent drive towards effective operations, which we summarized thinking about Lean Six
Sigma kinds of methodologies, which is really a quiet revolution that's going on inside of our company. And the last thing is, the ability to
change the very nature of knowledge work by harnessing machine learning. To-date, most of that has been applied to making our
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Well, first of all, I don't, at all, think that things are going wrong at Argus. It's a great business, which is founded on proprietary content
just like much of -- most of what we do at Verisk. So it's actually a great business and if you were to ask me which of our  verticals over
the next  years is going to turn in the highest rate of growth, I think there's a very good case to be made that it could be Verisk's
Financial Services. I actually find it hard to handicap the  of them. I think they're all going to do well. So it's a great business of which we
and I are very proud and provides wonderful levels of value to our customers. So all of that. Thinking about the last couple of years, as we
have discussed in the past, 2017, there were a couple of major relationships that cycled out. One part of that was the federal government
consolidated its use of what it is that we provide and the other was a very large player in the Financial Services world had essentially
been bulk buying some of what we do on behalf of a lot of banks and they stepped out of that relationship. And so underneath that, we
had been filling in with relationships with the banks individually. But that was a onetime effect, over and done. In 2018, you have to look
across the different segments of the business. And one of the things that is at work right now is -- and we did call this out last quarter
also, is the -- on the media and effectiveness side, I'm going to summarize a lot here in just a few words. But basically, the regulatory
burden on banks includes really, really requiring a tremendous amount of disclosure around methodologies, which allow the
discrimination of risk on an individual customer basis. I mean, the size of the report you have to write to justify methods that you're using
is really kind of astonishing. The banks want to do this differentiating and they find our method as valuable as it ever was, but consuming
our methods in the form that we had traditionally provided them has just become backbreaking from a regulatory point of view. So we're
in the middle of rotating right now the way we present that underlying intellectual property to our customers. And so it's a moment
where that shift is occurring. And then lastly, as Lee pointed out, again, in 2018, not only did he note the year over -- the grow over point
with respect to the implementation, but we've talked about the couple of quarter delay in terms of actually getting it productive.
Normally, what I mean -- and this is a truth of the business, when we establish a new relationship, there's a big surge of activity for data
integration purposes and then this very nice annuity stream kicks in thereafter. The annuity stream is kicking in a couple of quarters later
than we expected because of the integration issues. So that's what's going on inside the business, but our outlook on this business over
intermediate and longer periods of time is completely unchanged.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. It's both. And let me give you one other contextual point also, which is, of the  verticals we serve -- and I am talking about
customers now, I'm not talking about us, of the  verticals we serve, the Energy vertical is the one that is least transformed yet by
large-scale data analytics for commercial decision-making. The companies are awash in technical data. So it's not that they don't know
big data, but they haven't harnessed it the way that insurance companies and banks have to drive their commercial decision-making.
And we knew that at that time that we -- in fact, that's one of the reasons why we were so excited to get into a business with WoodMac.
And then, of course, the double tsunami hit in terms of the commodity price and the Brexit, which is -- what's hard on a U.K.-based
pound-denominated sort of a company. So in the middle of these storms, we basically trimmed the sails and pulled the boat into port.
Now the sky is clear, we're back out on the seas full sail. So I just want -- if folks haven't followed our story over the longer periods of
time, I just wanted to make that point because there is a degree to which WoodMac 2.0 is what we intended from the beginning. And it's
-- we just know that it's productive to have a very nicely digitally-based platform for all of your data because you can build the next
generation and the next generation after that of products if your platformed in that way. And I think that the WoodMac that came into
Verisk in  reflected that -- reflected their customers, basically. In other words, sort of the volume and the speed of the data sets on
the commercial side, were just not -- it just was not the way that environment had been behaving. So it's not that WoodMac was behind, I
think they were reflective of the environment they were in, but then the other part of it is, yes, it is responsive to customers because their
worlds have changed. Essentially, what's going on in the energy -- in the oil and gas energy space is that you used to have these years
under -- on to decades planning cycles where you would have these bespoke offshore, multi-hundreds of millions of dollars of
developments and essentially, every project kind of was onto its own. And so you planned in that context. What's happened is about half
of all the incremental supply has been added in North America. And in North America, the business behaves very differently. You can be
drilling a well in location X and you can say, "You know what, I want to move that 1,500 yards over there." And  days later, you can have
a 1,500-foot well. And so planning cycles have reduced to weeks and days and that's actually exciting. The other thing that has
happened is, it's not so bespoke, there are a lot of people in the Permian. There are a lot of people in the Bakken. Your position is next
door to somebody else's position. And so the intensity of desire to sort of benchmark and use that to tune up operations and planning is
much greater than it was. So in other words, to be effective, you have to be bigger data faster. And that's the conversion that's going on
right now. And so you can also think of WoodMac 2.0 as being not only the tuning up of our own environment, but it's actually creating
this capability to serve the customers on these faster cycles with a greater amount of benchmarking against like activities. I mean, that's
fundamentally what's going on, and that is customer-driven.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
That's going to take about an hour and a half.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
No, This is specific to banking regulation in the United States, particularly. So no, it's not.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Bill, I got to correct your facts there. So last quarter, we didn't talk about GEM cancellations. We talked about  things going on in the
business. When customers consolidate, that can have an effect on the combined entity revenues for us and we did note that there was
one of those. And then the other, and Lee talked about it in his remarks, was one investment bank has just sort of rethought their
position with respect to the energy vertical. And it's not that GEM has gone away, it's just that they scaled back their relationship with us.
So I just want to make sure our facts base is established.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Go ahead, Bill. Okay, Kyle, do you want to move to the -- I think we may have lost Bill. Can we move to the next question?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So thanks, Jeff. Yes. And maybe I can start. Mark, please jump in. But first of all, I really appreciate the way you asked the question
because there is no doubt that extreme events is -- the fact that there are extreme events is a productive factor as it relates to the rate --
the growth of our business, but it is a very long term sort of an effect underlying our results over very long periods of time. You can
probably add a few tens of basis points that are there because there are extreme events. Sometimes they peak, sometimes, it's much
more modest. But if you look over long cycles, there's something there, but it doesn't really explain what's going on in our business. So
thank you for the way you characterized the question, first of all. The only thing I would really call out as a point-specific thing, actually, is
the movement into remote imagery. That is a -- that's news. And that's been productive for us. Otherwise, I do think of it as broadly
based and really, it's fundamentally about how innovative can we be. Our customers are trying to revolutionize their businesses with data
analytics. And so it's really on us to be relevant and fast. And that's what determines the rate at which we grow. I -- our insurance
capabilities, footprint, customer list are all stronger than they were a couple of years ago. So to your point, fundamentally, and I think it's
very broadly-based, remote imagery would be the one call-out. Mark, I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Well, you're actually asking  questions there. So Lee, maybe you would take on the second one in a moment, which is just the interplay
between inorganic then becoming organic. I'm really happy with the integration of the companies that we brought in, in 2017, which fall
into  primary categories. One is, we stitched together a set of regional imaging companies into one national capability. Very happy with
the progress that we've made there. Secondly, we acquired Sequel over in the London market. That has been a textbook integration and
we are -- and we've -- we're already presenting to customers the integrated product opportunities that come from that. And then lastly,
is PowerAdvocate. As we've noted for folks, PowerAdvocate has already made sales based upon relatedness to other things we do on the
energy side. And I would actually say that, that one flows in both directions because PowerAdvocate is, I'll use a funny word, very
invasive, where our customers are concerned. I mean, it gets right into their systems and draws data out of our customer systems and is
so good at managing large amounts of data that it actually facilitates other opportunities to help energy companies digitally transform.
So it's just all green lights with respect to integration. Lee, just the inorganic to organic crossover, I don't know if you want to comment on
that.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. I mean, two things. One is, yes, as I said earlier, we've got  verticals. And it's hard to handicap which will be the fastest growing in
the coming  years. I think Energy has a lot of promise. We talked about the fundamental factors at work there. And those of you who
have followed us for a while know that a lot of what we do in Energy is based on multiyear agreements. And so we've been cycling
through those agreements as we pulled out of the commodity down cycle. And essentially, we just think that with time, these effects will
-- the constructive effects will continue to be seen in what we do. So we have a very positive outlook.
 
Michael Edward Reid Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Associate
Great. And then, I think, you noticed previously this year, price increases may be minimized, but would you still be looking to take
advantage of pricing opportunities next year?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Are you on the Energy vertical?
 
Michael Edward Reid Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Associate
No, no. I'm sorry. On insurance.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Price is always a factor inside of what we do. Our products don't come back year-over-year the same and the customers know that. So
there's naturally price progression in most everything we do. Mark, (sic) [Mike] I think most of the multiyear agreements we write in
insurance have year-over-year price escalation associated with them. So that's a persistent effect in our business. I don't see it as
becoming more or less meaningful than it has been in the past.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
So client retention is very high. So -- and in fact, we have more customers than we used to have. And as I noted before, the sort of the
progression related to research, it's really a function of multiyear agreements rolling off, new multiyear agreements being signed. That
has been at work -- since you could really call the turn of the commodity, which is within the last year, we've seen that effect at work. It
will continue to be at work as we go forward. Basically, the condition of the commodity is no longer an issue. We consider this a
normalized environment that we're in now. So it's constructive and productive for the work we're selling today and the work we hope to
be able to sell in the future.
Okay, okay. All right, everybody, thank you. We appreciate your interest and I'm sure we'll be talking to a lot of you in immediate
follow-ups and no later than next quarter. So thanks very much. Have a great day.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Good morning, everyone. It's good to be reporting another quarter where we can see strength in organic growth of our business across all
our verticals. Excluding exceptional events in the third quarter of  in the Insurance segment due to extreme weather and in the
Financial Services segment due to a contract signing, the organic growth of our company was 7.5% in the quarter, consistent with our
long-term model. And the profile of our growth is also reflecting our long-term model in that it is balanced across all the verticals.
I thought I would take a few minutes this morning to comment on the environment in which we do our work and the factors which
interact with our results. Fundamentally, we are aligned with one of the most powerful movements in the economy, which is, companies
harnessing data analytics with even greater focus and investment. There is a new level of digitization of business operations that has
become a necessity for companies and all the verticals we serve. While the notion of data as an asset has been around for a while,
In the past  days, I visited with  CEOs of our leading customers. In every case, I came away with an enhanced sense of opportunity. As
they take their businesses forward in a digitizing environment, their expressed preference is for a relatively short list of partners who can
make sense of all the technical innovations and relate them to existing workflows. In such an environment, a trusted and tested partner
like Verisk stands taller. As long as we continue to invest to keep our customers at the leading edge of innovation and do so with
efficiency, we will realize value.
On the talent front, I just received the results of our most recent employee engagement survey. We have, once again, qualified as a
certified Great Place to Work. Additionally, Forbes has named Verisk to its World's Best Employer list and its America's Best Employers
for Women's list in 2018. This is supportive of our business because our talent is what drives our customer depth and innovation agendas.
We are expanding our business footprint globally, and in line with this, we are making moves to have centers of excellence in multiple
geographies with special focus on India and Eastern Europe.
Lastly, our progress in the U.K. market remains encouraging with recent contract signings with market leaders. We are viewing our
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
I just want to clarify your question. So you say a tough period, meaning the performance of the insurance -- the state of the insurance
industry?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
I got it. I understand. Yes, thank you. Well, the best answer to that, I think, is actually found in our own historical performance. There was
a consecutive 5-year period where premiums were down year-over-year, and our business performed very well during that period. And
the reason is that what the insurance companies need to do, whether they're in particularly strong moments of the cycle or weaker
moments of the cycle, is to continue to upgrade their ability to ingest information, translate it into insight and then reflect that in a way
they price their products, structure their products, adjust claims around their products, et cetera. That is the work of the insurance
companies and that's what we're fundamentally a part of. So we're very comfortable with how our business -- our Insurance business will
do almost regardless of the cycle. I mean, I'm saying that very strongly. Obviously, sort of extreme events in the moment can have an
effect, but we've actually been through this and our business held up very well.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So maybe starting at the end of that, Toni. The performance of that segment is really pretty broadly based, and what I mean by that
is that it spans the kinds of solutions that we have traditionally provided, so sort of the core, look at the supply chain of the oil and gas
space, but also includes the upstream subsurface kinds of analytics, which are relatively newer for us, analytics related to the renewable
forms of energy. And then kind of over the top, on all of that, the digitizing trend that I talked about probably is differentially being felt
more strongly in the energy space than it is in the others because energy actually had started further behind. So we talked a lot about
WoodMac 2.0 and essentially sort of changing our own technical infrastructure, which allows us to interact with our customers
differently. That's a constructive movement in the business because our customers themselves are also changing their digital methods
on the commercial side of their businesses. So it's really very broadly based. If you were to think of it in terms of sort of what it is that's
getting delivered and looking at where we have been in  and where we're going in the future, we're always encouraged when we see
consulting do well because it tends to be a leading indicator of the propensity of our customers to be thinking into the future. And that
has been strong, so that's an encouraging signal for us. But as those of you who are familiar with our story know, most of the revenue is
related to subscriptions. And over the course of 2018, subscriptions have advanced nicely also across several of those thematic categories
that I talked about. So it's not really any one thing. It's really broadly based.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Thanks, Andrew. Yes. So to your question about the models, that comment in my remarks was related to Financial Services and Argus
specifically. And what's going on there, just to sort of reprieve that real quick is that in the face of mounting regulations, the amount of
documentation that is required on some of your models, if you're a bank or you're a credit card issuer, have really, really ramped up. And
so we had created some offerings that were pretty popular with our customers and that's summarized a lot into what we call a wallet
share model. And so if you're going to you sort of a wallet share model, what the regulators have said is, "You cannot sort of operate that
as a black box. You're going to have to show us what's inside of your black box." And so the sort of the burden for our customers opening
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. Our pricing philosophy is the same as it's always been, which is that we price to value. So we're very focused on the utility of our
solutions for our customers, and it's on that basis that we set the prices for the solutions that we provide. And as has always been the
case, our preference and the heart of our model is recurring subscriptions. And we find that, that's good for our customers. They like
knowing with some certainty what they're going to be paying for our solutions, and it's good for us because of the visibility and the
recurrence. So we normally try to -- that's where we try to set our pricing model. There are some occasions where, with newer solutions,
particularly, the customers would prefer that we start out transaction priced because
(technical difficulty)
exactly how much of it they're going to consume as they begin using it. And so we're perfectly happy to do that when that's what the
customers want. But we generally find, with time, that they would like us to transition to subscriptions. And then the last thing I'll add is,
as a part of our pricing philosophy, that we generally attempt to achieve multiyear subscriptions with price inflators on an annual basis,
which reflects the fact that most of what we do is so basic to what our customers do, it's so embedded in their workflows, that it's just --
there's just sort of a mutual understanding that this is the way business is going to get done. And so our customers are comfortable with
signing multiyear agreements. And of course, for us, that just represents an even higher level of recurrence. So everything I just said has
been a part of our approach since October of  when you first saw us as a public company, and I'm very certain it will remain our
go-to-market approach.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
So Lee, in a minute, I'll let you just talk about the split of our revenues. But yes, autonomous cars and Internet of Things, data coming
from vehicles and from homes, very definitely a part of what we're doing. Those are constructive trends inside of our business and will
only continue to be more important, especially for insurance companies. So that's just sort of established inside of what it is we're doing.
Lee, do you want to just talk about the split of our business?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes, sure. So just all the way to the top, just talking about what the demography of the industry looks like. At the top end of the market,
there are a certain number of consolidations each year. My emphasis here would be on the fact that it's really not a very large number.
But also bear in mind that there are new entrants into the insurance space on a consistent basis, and several of these are what get
referred to as the InsurTechs. Sometimes, they're innovating based upon the way that they segment the market. You have some
innovation in terms of, say, peer-to-peer forms of insurance, which are kind of interesting, but they haven't really -- they haven't
expressed themselves yet as particularly big trends. But think of it as an industry where, yes, there is some consolidation at one end of
the market, but there's also entry at the other end of the market. We do -- we have done very well with the new entrants. They find it
really helpful to be able to make use of our methods as they get started. They're efficient. It helps them get in the business quickly. It's
actually a credibility point for them as they do their business, et cetera. So as we talk about sort of the evolution -- and these are -- this is
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes, I mean, there might be a few more situations like where AXA and XL Catlin came together. And that's an interesting one because I
think that one actually represents a fair amount of opportunity for us. But I mentioned that one because that has sort of a global,
geographic markets dimension and it's also reinsurance sort of being layered more directly on top of insurance inside of this one specific
company. So I think you may see some of that, but that's actually the most constructive kind of consolidation I can imagine for us,
constructive for us.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. Actually, quite a bit of progress is being made on subscriptions, and again, I think you do need to look beyond  quarter to say the
year or even multiple years, but since we really called the turn on the business, which would have been -- just referencing my notes here,
about, I guess, about  months ago or so. The progression of the subscriptions from then has looked very much like what we would
expect and has -- and is very supportive of our view that this is a business which can be -- can perform above the rate of organic growth
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
And I guess, a last point I would make is that a lot of the subscription renewals occur in the fourth quarter and the first quarter. So to a
degree, it's not really quite surprising that the third quarter would be relatively a little quieter with respect to subscriptions.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So GDPR is a contextual factor for us, but not one that I would say is really interacting with our results near term. And as long as we
protect our data assets the way that I -- we have, and I expect we will, I do not believe it will be a material impact going forward. So I
can't comment on somebody else's construal of the effect of the regulation. But where our business is concerned, we -- the primary effect
of it, at the interface with our customers, is we have an extended discussion about contracts because we need to now talk about the
assignment of liability at a higher level. We always would have to talk about it, but we talk about it more than we used to. That's really
the only effect that I see. And it's not material. It's not material.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Right, good. So I'll ask Lee to talk about margins in a moment, but with respect to the investments that we've made, very substantially,
they go in the direction of putting us into new categories of solution sets that we, otherwise, either haven't provided or we provided in
ways that haven't fully expressed what it is we can do for customers. So for example, the acquisition of PowerAdvocate puts us in a
category of spend analytics for the energy vertical that we weren't doing before. The Sequel acquisition puts us in a position to serve the
London market, particularly with respect to complex commercial risks, in a way that we weren't able to serve it before. And then all the
investments that we've done in Geomni -- we were in the category of interpreting remote imagery into data sets, into analytics for our
customers, but the issue that we had was we didn't have enough high-quality raw material. And so a lot of what -- a lot of the
investment, as you heard Mark saying, on the Geomni side was basically to put ourselves in a position to have a lot of great raw material.
So again, that is very much saying that -- putting us into a new and different position for enhanced revenue growth on the top line. So --
and then other internal investments, the same. WoodMac 2.0 will carry with it some efficiency gains, but it also makes us more capable
in front of our customers. So very much, it is about contributing to incremental growth of our business. It's not about the maintenance of
things that we already do. And that is also really part of our feeling about the likely returns of these investments that we're making,
which as you would imagine, revenue ramps. Most everything we do is scalable, so as these investments mature and the revenues grow, I
would expect to see it be constructive with respect to margin. And also, even if you look at more than just, say, a quarter -- and maybe,
Lee, you want to pick up here a little bit, yes, we still see constructive progression in the organic EBITDAs inside of our business, relative
to the organic revenue growth rates. So...
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Okay. Well, thanks, everybody, for joining us today. I appreciate your interest, and we look forward to seeing many -- hopefully, all of you,
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Thank you, Stacey, and good morning, everyone. Apologies for my voice today.
As we turn the page on 2018, I want to give you my bottom line view of the year just passed. We did well and see opportunity to improve.
The single most important reflection of our vitality is our rate of organic revenue growth. And normalizing for the effects of exceptional
storm-related revenues and the significant contract signing and financial services in 2017, our organic constant-currency revenue growth
was 7.2% ahead of our long-term financial target of 7%.
Moreover, our growth was broadly-based across our Insurance vertical along with Wood Mackenzie in the Energy space and our core
consortium data analytics in the Financial Services vertical. The heart of our position in the  verticals is sound and forms the basis for
cross-selling these solutions in the future.
Another leading indicator for me comes from the many conversations I have with the CEOs of our leading customers. Are they thinking of
Verisk as a partner or as a vendor? A consistent message across  is that we are engaging our customers around some of their
highest priority initiatives for the future and they see Verisk as a distinctive and trusted partner in doing so. The result of many of my CEO
visits is a request that their teams be placed in closer proximity to our innovation pipeline.
Our last comment about the year just passed regards the planning cycle we went through at the end of the year. I have never seen a
higher volume of fresh ideas for new solutions and approaches for engaging our customers. We have a wonderful problem of needing to
choose among a wide variety of opportunities.
Scott, you mentioned that you've been meeting with the CEOs of your customers. Could you just call out what seems, maybe, on their
minds that might be different from last year? Or just give us a sense of the most important priorities that they're focused on.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. Thanks, Toni. Two things immediately come to mind. One is, I would say, almost every insurance company CEO believes and expects
that they can find ways to make their company grow faster than their competitors, faster than the industry. I think that's really significant
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
David, Scott here. Yes, the business does fit. The -- I think that many of the folks on the call today are familiar with what we call our 
distinctives, which we talk about a lot, which, just to remind everybody are: unique data assets, deep domain expertise, first-mover
advantage and deep embedment in customer workflows. And what we do in Financial Services has all  of those qualities. So as Lee
previously talked about some of the things that have sort moved through the business of late, and we talked about the -- sort of the
lumpy quality of the way that some of the revenues had been recognized in the past.
But what I would go back to is that the heart of the business is built on consortium data, which is absolutely unique. And unlike the data,
which is available to anyone else, including the players you mentioned, on top of which then we have very deep relationships with our
customers and, really, a large data platform which is really remarkable for a company of its size. So all of the conditions are there. And
then I will also say, again, echoing what Lee said, the strength of portfolio analytics plus the spend analytics that we do are the leading
parts of the business, and they're actually healthy. So we expect that as these other effects sort of wash through, you'll get sort of a more
clear view of those things built upon the distinctives, which really will power the business going forward.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes, so let me start, and Mark, you may want to amplify some of this. But when we think about data in the Insurance vertical, it's really a
combination of looking for opportunities to tease additional meaning out of existing datasets and generating new datasets. So upfront, I
mentioned, for example, subrogation. Subrogation is essentially bound up in the claims resolution process, and as I think most folks
know, we have a lot of claims data. So finding a way to point that at the subrogation case and to think about affiliated things like clearing
payment between counterparts is just interesting, and it's really a process that hasn't really been transformed yet in the insurance
industry. So that would be an example of repurposing.
But, then there are other places where we're trying to generate original datasets. And one thing I would just comment on here is that, on
the one hand, we're very alert to opportunities to position data to where it can be repurposed. On the other hand, we're very diligent
about the reasons why our customers made the data available to us in the first place. And so we're always going to be striking a balance
between what's possible and what our customer contributors would like to see us do, but there's plenty of room in there for innovation.
And then there are a variety of new datasets where we're making original calls for data. And actually, even that takes a couple of forms.
One is we have existing platforms like PCS, where we've started the call data related to cyber incidents and we didn't used to do that. So
that's original data, but around an existing platform. We're always trying to enrich the data that comes into a platform like ClaimSearch
and then we're trying to find that get new forms of claims data that we don't receive today, for example, commercial claims histories are
not as developed as personal claims histories. Mark, anything you want to add to all that?
 
Yes, I think that was well said. I think it goes back to the earlier comments you made about partnerships and conversations with CEOs. In
the world of data, obviously, our customers and many people feel their data is valuable. So we need to provide them with valuable use
cases back to their businesses in order for them to let us use the data. So having the great partnerships and relationships is very
important. We continue to be a trusted intermediary for that data and we feel that's a privileged position.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So let me take it as a general level, Andrew, and maybe, Lee, if you want to add anything. It's constructive on both the revenue and
the margin side because part of what Lens is getting after is the very nature of our data aggregation and it becomes more efficient on this
platform that we built, but equally, there's more functionality there for customers, and so we think it'll be constructive in both ways. I
don't -- I wouldn't point you so much to milestones or at least not those that will be called out in the overall performance of the business.
What I'm trying -- and I'm not making a comment about the future profile of the financial performance of the business, I'm simply saying
the revenue streams are all sort of -- think of it as a bowl of spaghetti and Lens works its way through things that we already do. In
addition to representing modules -- new modules that we can license to customers. But as called out, specifics, basically, it'll be -- we do
business with so many companies already, this will really enhance cross-selling into existing relationships. But in terms of visibility to the
outside, I'm not -- I wouldn't call out any particular milestone. Just the general progress of the business, really. Lee, anything you want to
add to that?
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Well, I mean, yes, but no. So you observe something, yes, but the implication I don't think is right. So yes, we need to be running things in
parallel and we have been investing, as Lee has referenced several times, to build the platform. But the actual operation of the platform
-- I mean, one of the things that so constructive inside of our business is that we enjoy the gift of Moore's Law every day. And so, actually,
the cost of compiling data or even processing data inside of the platform that you have built, the incremental cost is not really all that
great. I'm not saying that it's zero. So you're correct about what we will do operationally, but I think the implication you were trying to
reach in terms of operating expense going forward is not so accurate.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So those of you who have followed us know that the majority, in fact, a large majority, of the data that we've had up until today has
been mostly about the commercial dimensions of the oil and gas business. So observations about productivity and the cost factors
associated with the assets that produce either the raw materials or the refined materials. So those are the datasets that have typically,
traditionally, been a part of what we do. The datasets we're adding are what we call the subsurface datasets, and these are the ones that
take into account the actual real-time operations, even in the oilfield, in combination with the nature of the rock and the nature of the
fluids and the nature of the fields, so that we can complement everything we've already done -- always done with basically much more
real-time optimization of the operations of our customers' assets. And this is something that we haven't done as much of, in fact, very
little of, up until now. So the datasets relate to that, real-time operational optimization.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Well, the -- so whenever we talk about a consortium dataset, you're always talking about specific customers and, generally, specific
product sets or specific places. So that does apply in what we're doing in building these new datasets, these subsurface datasets. And
our focus right now, predominantly, is the Lower  in the United States, where the need -- the situation in the United States is different
than the situation in most other parts of the world. Because in the United States, what the operators are doing is basically saying, "That
particular rig, should I move it 2,000 feet? And I can move it and  days later, have a 1,000-foot well that's producing." And so that's the
speed with which "Strategy" is being set and operations are being rebalanced in the United States.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
It's a combination of the 2, and it really hinges upon how much analytic content we get into what we do. So there are players today that
will provide observations about a number of this sort of individual parameters that apply when you're trying to understand the
productivity of real-time operations. So from one place, you can get data as it relates to, for example, the completion strategies that have
been taken for the individual well. There are other sources where you can make sure that you have completely identified the leasing --
the lease holding and ownership structure of whatever patch of land you're talking about. And then other places, you can go for the
heavy seismology work, and on and on and on like that.
So part of what we will do is to increasingly make those types of -- those kinds of data available to our customers. But then over and
above that, what doesn't exist so much in the marketplace today is the -- is really the AI, machine-learned expression of all of that data in
quantity across heterogeneous situations. So that in an automated fashion, you can really make predictions and drive decisioning. And
there, we expect, because we're Verisk, we will be distinguished. How much those kinds of solutions generate completely original
revenue streams versus how much they displace, for example, some of these bespoke datasets, I would say that remains to be seen. The
primary point here is there is the opportunity for differentiation.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Yes. So yes, you definitely understood what I was saying upfront. All  of those trends apply broadly across our company, but specifically
in the Insurance vertical. I mean, if you just step back and you say, okay, this environment, this insurance environment, what
characterizes it? The customer set is relatively stable. There are occasionally some large merger transactions and there are some
segments, like global reinsurance brokers, where there's been some of that. But by and large, the customer demography is steady.
Regulation really doesn't change that much. Energy -- or excuse me, technology is a constructive factor as it relates to a company like us
because back to the top, every -- virtually every one of our customers believes they can grow faster than their competitors and so
everybody is trying to behave innovatively. And so that's just inherently constructive for folks like us. And then if you think about all of the
many references that we've made this morning, there are just new things that we're doing and bringing to the market that don't exist.
And so it's a constructive environment. I mean, the United States property and casualty insurance industry, our home market, is the
granddaddy of large-scale contributory data analytics. I mean, it was invented that way practically. And so we really have this wonderful
privilege of being who we are inside of that very constructive environment.
 
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
I would just add that the recent movement in the commodity is within a range that we don't consider material to the performance of our
business.
Scott G. Stephenson Verisk Analytics, Inc. - Chairman, President & CEO
Okay. Well, thank you all very much for your continued interest in Verisk, and we look forward to following up with a number of you as
well as those who are taking a new look at Verisk based upon our new capital policy, including the dividend.
So look forward to our continuing conversations with you. Thanks. Thanks for this morning, and your attention.