W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Investor Relations for CF. With me today are Tony Will, CEO; Dennis Kelleher, CFO; Bert Frost, Senior Vice President of Sales, Market
Now let me introduce Tony Will, our President and CEO.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Martin, and good morning, everyone. Last night, we posted our financial results for the first quarter of  in which we
generated adjusted EBITDA of $305 million after taking into account the items detailed in our earnings release. We're really pleased with
this performance, especially against the backdrop of another first quarter with cold and wet weather that delayed the application season
even more so than last year. Despite lower sales volumes, we exceeded our first quarter adjusted EBITDA from last year as selling prices
were significantly higher for urea, UAN and AN.
 
We also operated extremely well. We set a quarterly production record for urea, and our ammonia production was our third-highest ever.
Most importantly, we continued to work safely as our rolling 12-month recordable incident rate remained at 0.6 incidents per 200,000
work hours.
As we have said many times in the past, we plan our business on a 6-month increment. Weather patterns may move product shipments
out of one quarter and into another, but we run our plants 24/7/365, and over the course of a year, we're going to ship everything we
make. We believe this year will be no different. April saw much-improved shipments, and we are now ahead of where we were a year ago
on volume.
As Bert will outline shortly, we expect high demand for nitrogen due to increased corn acres in the United States, amplified by low
ammonia applications last fall. At the same time, we expect continued disruptions to barge and rail transportation due to the lingering
effects of weather. This is testing the industries logistics capabilities to move upgraded product to farmers when and where they need it.
We believe these challenges play right into our strengths. We have significant in-region production, unparalleled logistics capabilities
and an expansive distribution network. These position us well as the spring application season progresses.
Longer term, these same operational advantages, along with our structural advantage of operating in an import-dependent region and
our access to low-cost North American natural gas, will continue to drive our cash-generation capability.
Before I turn it over to Bert, I want to comment on the expected impacts of the European Commission's announcement of provisional
duties on imports of UAN. We strongly disagree with the Commission's conclusions, which we believe ignore the market fundamentals of
a globally traded commodity like UAN. CF purchases natural gas, our primary input, at prevailing market prices. We use that in our
highly efficient plants to produce UAN and then sell it at prevailing market prices. The key difference between CF and Eastern European
producers is that we have newer, more efficient, more reliable, more climate-friendly and lower-GHG plants than they do. We also have
access to low-cost North American natural gas. That said, we fully expect that these duties will impact global UAN trade flows and that
it'll take some time for the industry to adjust.
Fortunately, CF has more options than many others, and we have been taking appropriate steps to mitigate the financial impact to our
company. We exported roughly 850,000 tons of UAN to Europe last year, and this is how we think about realigning those tons going
forward: we'll make more granular urea and less UAN, which will absorb between 300,000 to 700,000 tons of that, depending upon the
specific production mix decisions we make. We continue to build demand in South America and leverage our relationships there, and so
we expect to increase our exports into that region. Finally, in the last  months, we have leased additional access to UAN space within
North America.
Based on those -- based on these actions that Bert and Chris and their teams have taken, we can easily realign those tons that we
previously sent to Europe without a significant financial impact. In the short term, we also benefit from an increase in corn acres in North
America, which, coupled with poor fallout ammonia applications, will significantly increase UAN demand here this year. So net-net,
we're well prepared to deal with the loss of access to the European market.
With that, let me turn it over to Bert, who'll talk more about the spring application season. Then Dennis will cover a few financial items
before I offer some closing remarks. Bert?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Dennis. Before we move onto your questions, I want to thank everyone at CF for their great work in the first quarter. They
operated safely, made the most of the opportunities and helped us to be well positioned for the remainder of the first half of 2019.
When we spoke to you on this call  year ago, urea prices at New Orleans were about to hit their low point of the year at roughly $200 per
ton. Today, New Orleans barge prices are about $270 per ton, and our price for urea in the Midwest is over $370, more than $100 per ton
premium, reflecting the logistical challenges the industry sees currently.
We are also benefiting from lower natural gas prices. The cost of natural gas at Henry Hub in the first quarter was lower than a year ago,
and through the end of 2019, Henry Hub natural gas futures remain well below $3 and below  prices. Added to that is the benefit we
receive from basis differentials in Alberta and Oklahoma. These factors highlight the operational and structural advantages that we
enjoy and that will drive our long-term cash-generation capability.
With that, operator, we will now open the call to your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean it's really a question of where prices for the various products are trading. If we make more UAN, it uses both ammonia that would
otherwise go into the nitric acid, the AN piece of it and urea. If we dial back UAN and make more urea, we're getting urea and some
excess ammonia out of it. So what Bert and Chris are doing is they're looking at the relative values of the various product prices, where
we sit in the inventory, what the demand profile looks like and then are trying to optimize what the production mix looks like. And as we
talked about in the comments in the script, we've got sort of pretty ample room to move probably between something like 300,000 to
700,000 tons of what we historically ship to the EU into granular instead and make that just disappear. We've also got exports and more
tank space. And it doesn't necessarily have to show up as granular, it can also go out the door as either urea liquor or DEF, which -- the
demand for that continues to grow. So when we built the projects, we built a lot of flexibility into the product mix side, and Bert and his
team have done a great job of continuing to open up additional markets for us. That effort has been on its way -- or underway for like last
 or  years. So we -- I think even though it's disruptive and it removes a little bit of our flexibility, it's something that we're in a position
to manage going forward.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean I think they're going to kind of bounce back and forth for a while as the market sort of adjusts the new trade flows and people
figure out what sort of product mix that -- because other people have flexibility, particularly the Russians have some flexibility between
NPKs and AN and other options as well. So I think what you'll see is those relationships kind of bounce around a little bit. Long term, I
think there needs to be a premium in UAN in order for people to justify putting the incremental capital into acid plants and a UAN plant
 
because otherwise, if it doesn't command a premium, what you'll see is people stop putting maintenance into acid AN plants and just
produce granular going forward. So I think long term, eventually, you've got to see that return. But I don't know whether long term in this
context means  months,  months or 1.5 year. But it -- we feel pretty comfortable that it'll get back there. And in the near term, we've
got a lot of options in terms of how we deal with it.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Joel, I'll turn it over to Bert to give you some specific commentary here in a minute. But through April, we're ahead of where we were
on volume shipments last year. And so yes, May -- or the first quarter was a little bit behind, but we've more than caught that up through
April. So we're very comfortable with where we sit from a demand profile. But Bert, why don't you...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
It's a nice conversation to have as opposed to us trying to defend the notion of an in-market premium being sustainable when people a
few years ago were talking about that's getting wiped out, and the fact of the matter is the evidence doesn't support that thesis. Like
we're trading in $100 in-market premium right now because of supply disruptions and other issues, and that's kind of what we've said all
along, and we really enjoy the benefit of our network as a result of that.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
But I think also, Ben, on that point, the big issue is we've got a lot of rolling stock. We've got access to multiple rail lines. We've got our
own barge network and our contracts in place, and traders and people that are bringing tons over don't have access to that. And so what
the end market premium is really kind of reflecting is that there is instantaneous challenges of moving products from the Gulf or other
import ports into the interior, and we've got an ability to move diesel tons into the interior. We've also have Port Neal and Verdigris and
other in-market plants that are already there. And so from the coast, it's probably -- or from diesel, it's $30 to $40 to move most of those
tons kind of up into the Cornbelt. And so the spread between that price and what we're realizing today is sort of just the arbitrage that
Bert was talking about earlier of either short squeezes or inability for traders to move tons because they don't have access to logistics.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean shipments in aggregate are up at this point year-on-year. So we feel very comfortable, both with kind of how demand is
shaping up for this year, what our inventory position is, what our book looks like, and again, where prices are and where gas is, we're well
ahead of what last year looked like. So all of that's shaping up to be a really solid first half for us.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean our expectation is that all of that production finds its way out in the public marketplace. For -- there's enough people and the
world demands that product, and there's enough people kind of willing to chase the dollars that -- we're just planning on all of that
production coming out. So we don't believe, all of a sudden, there's going to be some huge disruption to the supply side. That said, if the
U.S. actually does get tough on sanctions and makes it more difficult, there's possible upside there for us, but we're certainly not
planning on it.
Bert, you have other...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean the other thing I'd add to Bert, if I can, Mark, is if you look at stocks to use, soy is really high and corn is actually kind of down to
 or below levels. And so as we just look at our own, we don't have the intel that the seed guys do. But as we look at our order book
and where product prices are for nitrogen, as we look at what the in-market premium is and the urgent demand for our products and just
kind of what the overall shipment pattern has been, despite it being a pretty tough first quarter, we're very comfortable with kind of the --
what the acreage numbers looks like and what we see developing for the first half of the year.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I would say it's probably roughly flat, maybe up or down, just -- up a little is what I'm getting the nods around the table on. But I think it's
-- whatever small amount gets moved there, if you think about it on a per MMBtu kind of costs in terms of the gas content of the product,
we're going to see net a favorable impact in terms of the price that we're buying gas at relative to the distribution cost. So net-net, on a
COGS basis, in terms of moving those tons into market, they ought to be at a lower aggregate cost. I think we're also seeing a movement
in the form of transportation. We're seeing a little less barge availability just given what's going on in terms of the river. And as Bert
talked about, ice locks still in the northern part, inability to access Minneapolis and so forth. So we're seeing a bit more rail and probably
a bit more truck, less barge, so that's a little bit higher mode cost. But I think it's not going to be one of those things that jumps off the
pages all of a sudden, wow, I'm shocked that this number is what it is.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean I'll give you just a quick bit, and I'll toss it over to Dennis. But we publish kind of an estimated cost curve for the year only
about once a year, and it's one of those things that changes very dynamically. I mean, obviously, the day that it's published, which tends
to be October, it's already out of date because the stuff moves very quickly. Obviously, because of a fair bit of glut of LNG, gas prices in
Europe, for instance, are lower than the normal sort of oil index basis would have traditionally had them pegged at. But if you look at the
forward curve for an NBP and TTF, it's got it going back to $7 plus by the fourth quarter. So we think in the near term, there's a little bit of
dislocation. But honestly, if you look at where the price curve was that we published last October, it projected a price range of like $260
to $300, and we traded within that range and we're still within that range today. So even though it's kind of a little bit older and some of
those bars have moved, it's not like wildly inaccurate. That's still where urea is trading today.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean we always look at all kinds of things, whether it's organic or inorganic. And I don't see us doing a big sort of bold brownfield
or greenfield kind of expansion like we did back in  because assets traded -- are trading below replacement cost. So there's no
reason to go out and do that kind of thing. What you have seen is the industry undertaking a fair bit of upgrade kind of projects. So Coke
and Nutrien and Dakota Gas and others have taken on urea projects and other things that have been converting more ammonia into
urea. And those are -- it doesn't change the nutrient balance from an S&D standpoint, but it improves economics for those people that
do it, largely because there's very expensive transportation logistics cost around ammonia. And then when you have weather vagaries in
the fall and in the spring, sometimes, you're not able to move as much ammonia as you want in the ag space. And so it's just more
predictable and reliable if you've got upgraded products. So we certainly would think about a debottleneck or  on some upgrades. I
don't know that we need a lot more ammonia right now just because we've got a lot of ammonia as it is, but I could envision us thinking
about doing debottlenecks on some of the upgrades and converting more ammonia into upgraded product. And we're constantly looking
at logistics plays and other things to make our existing network more efficient, whether it's exporting out of D-ville or moving product
into the interior, giving us a different access to multiple modes of transportation so we can -- our different lanes and so forth. That's kind
of what we are thinking about. And on the inorganic side, it's always a question of is it cash flow accretive or are there other alternatives?
And if there's something that we can find that fits within our capabilities that way we can leverage our skills and create some value that's
cash flow accretive, we think about it. But in the absence of that, we're very comfortable continuing to drive and improve our existing
network.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
But obviously, Don, at current prevailing prices, ammonia exports into the industrial space are kind of our last resort. So that goes into
the math as we think about mixed decisions on UAN versus urea and whether we've got options domestically to take more of that
product or be forced to export some of it. And ammonia exports right now don't look good for anybody regardless of where you are.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean I -- carbon is one of those things, and we spend a fair bit of time talking to regulators on both sides of the border about this,
which is as long as any regime that's put in place is applied to imports as well as local production, then it just raises the bar for
everybody, and ultimately, it's passed onto the consumer. And the problem is if you just apply it for domestic production and don't apply
it to imports, then what you're doing is shifting production and jobs offshore and you're going to end up effectively closing domestic
manufacturing, and that's just poor economic policy because it's carbon leakage. We operate some of the most efficient plants in
Canada. There's already a tax regime on carbon in Alberta, and we're working with the regulators up there. It's obviously changing
dynamic given the new parties in power in the provinces, and that's a shifting dynamic. But I don't anticipate that it's going to have a
dramatic effect one way or another on pricing in the U.S. or in Canada or in terms of our financial results.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean we view Pine Bend the same we do, for instance, our phosphate business back in the day and so forth, which is are we the
best economic owner for it or is somebody else? Are we getting maximum value? What's the return on capital employed as we think
about what the market value is worth? And can we solve that in a different direction? That asset was a legacy from the period of time
where we were a co-op and we were sourcing all kinds of product for our member owners and holding it there and moving it around. And
it became sort of incrementally less valuable to us when we sold our phosphate business because we used to move a lot of phosphate
there and also became incrementally less important when we built the urea plant at Port Neal because that gave us access to that same
region on a truck-reach basis. And the fact of the matter is, we were just underutilizing that space. There was over 200,000 tons of space
there and we were using about  of it. And so it didn't make sense for us to continue to own it. The agreement that we reached with
Mosaic gives us access to be able to continue to put tons through that facility, and they are a much better economic owner of that asset.
It's good for them, it's good for us. And so like any other decision we make, this is strictly who is the right owner.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I also think it demonstrates a real commitment on the part of central government around their environmental policy, which is urea
production, particularly in China, which it tends to be largely coal based, carries a very large environmental footprint, whether it's scarce
water usage, particulate matter emissions and so forth. And I think with the question that they're rightfully asking is, is this something we
need to be doing given the toll it's taking on the environment. And I think the answer is no. There's plenty of freely traded urea out there.
They're importing soy, they're importing corn, they're importing other things. Why go out of their way to be self-sufficient or excess on
urea production when it just carries a big toll. And I think you're seeing a recognition that, that doesn't really make a lot of sense.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, for sure. I mean I think you're spot on. Just because it's not in the pre-plant does not mean that you lose that. You get the post-plant,
side-dress, top-dress. The application technology that's available as well as this is why we're aligned with the retail network and why the
retail network adds value and why we want to have these relationships with our customers like CHS and GROWMARK and Nutrien and
people like that, Helena, that are active in the market dealing with these issues. They can run 24/7 and will and will move from
end-to-end to make sure that, that product gets applied and the crops are fed. So I can see us going well into -- not well into but into July
for sure. And we normally do with the pivot season in Nebraska and the irrigated acres does go into July. I would bet more of that -- more
tons move that direction because of this later application.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Go ahead, Bert.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
No. I mean I think the issue, though, is the industry runs 24/7/365, and so it's hard to kind of "preship" stuff because it's not that you're
running on a shift basis and building a bunch of inventory disgorging it. You got to ship it as you produce it, and so there really isn't that
kind of opportunity to do that in any meaningful way.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
President Investor Relations for CF. With me today are Tony Will, CEO; Dennis Kelleher, CFO; Bert Frost, Senior Vice President of Sales,
Now let me introduce Tony Will, our President and CEO.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Martin, and good morning, everyone. Last night, we posted our financial results for the first half of 2019, in which we generated
adjusted EBITDA of $936 million after taking into account the items detailed in our earnings release. Adjusted EBITDA increased 23%
over the first half of  and 63% over 2017. Meanwhile, sales volumes have remained constant at 9.8 million product tons in each of
the years 2017, '18, and '19.
Weather impacts significantly the timing of fertilizer applications, often forcing shipments out of  quarter and into another, but sales
 
volumes have remained constant over the first halves of the years. This really demonstrates the uniqueness and power of the CF
Industries business model that despite the most extreme weather on record and uncertainty in shifting of planted acres by crop type, our
first half sales volume has been steady each of the past  years ever since our capacity expansion project started up at the end of 2016.
North America has some of the best, most-productive farmland in the world. And it will be planted each year, if at all possible, even in a
year like this one. As it is planted, it requires nitrogen fertilizer, the only nondiscretionary nutrient.
This year also demonstrates why quarterly comparisons year-over-year are less meaningful than the comparability of first half results as
quarterly volume is impacted by weather but first half volumes remains constant.
Our terrific results were driven by  factors, higher year-over-year nitrogen prices and outstanding execution by the CF team. Nitrogen
price increases were underpinned by a tightening global supply-demand balance. We also benefited from higher-than-normal in-region
premiums due to weather-related logistical issues that limited product supply at some inland locations. Meanwhile, the CF team and
network performed exceptionally well during the first half. We set an all-time record for ammonia production. We took advantage of our
system's flexibility to favor higher-margin urea production over UAN, leading to all-time record urea production and shipments. And we
leveraged our distribution terminals and our logistical capabilities to reliably deliver for customers.
Most importantly, we continued to work safely. Our 12-month rolling recordable incident rate remained at 0.6 incidents per 200,000
work hours despite the high level of activity that included a record 5.7 million product tons shipped during the second quarter.
As we've stated, we believe that we will generate superior free cash flow through the cycle compared to most of our global competitors.
As shown on Slides  and  of our deck, over the last  months, our free cash flow was the industry's best at nearly $1 billion.
It is clear that not all EBITDA is created equal. Many of our competitors' cash from operations is consumed back into their business to
keep the lights on and the plants running. While we convert a significantly higher percentage of ours into available free cash flow, this
efficiency of EBITDA conversion into free cash means that although most industry participants' equity is a valued within a similar band of
trading multiples off EBITDA, investors in CF Industries are rewarded with significantly higher free cash flow yield than for any of the
other industry competitors.
Why is that important? Because we use that industry-best free cash to increase shareholder accretion in our business as measured by
tons of nitrogen capacity per 100,000 shares.
As seen on Slides  and 10, over the last  months, we have driven approximately 9% accretion for shareholders by investing in
attractive growth, returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. And we were also able to significantly
reduce our outstanding debt levels at the same time. We believe that we are well positioned to build on this track record over the next
several years.
As Bert will describe in more detail, there are a number of factors supporting our positive outlook. First, we expect strong nitrogen
demand in North America over the next  years as farmer economics strongly incent corn plantings.
Second, the forward curve for the North American natural gas remains very attractive compared to the rest of the world. This will
continue to provide CF Industries a significant cost advantage, keeping us on the low end of the global cost curve.
And third, we expect global demand growth for nitrogen to outpace net capacity additions over the next  years, further tightening the
global supply-demand balance. Because of these  critical drivers, we see tremendous opportunities ahead for us that will continue to
support our generation of substantial free cash flow.
With that, let me turn it over to Bert, who will talk more about how we delivered these strong results and our outlook for next few years.
Then Dennis will cover the financial items, before I offer some closing remarks. Bert?
 
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Dennis. Before we move onto your questions, I want to thank everyone at CF for their great work in the first half of 2019. They put
all of the capabilities we've talked about for years into action to enable us to deliver for our customers and to generate strong financial
results. Most importantly, they operated safely.
I also want to recognize the team at our Ince, U.K. facility, who won the Stephen R. Wilson Excellence in Safety Award for their innovation
that protects people and equipment while servicing high-voltage switchgear.
As I close, I want to offer a special thank you to Dennis Kelleher on his final earnings call with us. As you know, Dennis is retiring from CF
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
And Adam, I'd add to that -- kind of what Bert was saying. I think one of the things that the EU antidumping duties did is it led to some
globally inefficient behavior. So you've got a set of EU producers that are basically running full, that on a purely economic basis, ought to
have been shut down or at least largely curtailed, so that the lower-cost Russian and Trinidadian tons and even our tons could have
backfilled into that marketplace.
 
But sort of the real kind of irony, I guess, on all of this is, what you've seen is UAN prices to the European farmers, in particular the French
farmers, has gone through the roof. And UAN pricing in the rest of the world has been relatively maintained. And so what Brussels really
did is put a huge tax on the European farmers and turned around and given it to the inefficient European producers, some of which are
owned, ironically, by Russian entities.
So they've kind of taxed the French farmers and funneled the money back into the Russian oligarchs' pockets, so it's kind of a weird twist
the way that worked. But as Bert said, we've got a lot of different levers to pull, and we're navigating it as best as possible.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean I think the other thing I'd add to that Joel is, as Bert said, because the ammonia system ran so well and set an all-time production
record in the first half, we're really pleased with the volumes that Bert and the team got down on the ground from an ag perspective
because ammonia still represented a great value to farmers compared to the -- on a nutrient basis compared to ammonia or UAN and
urea.
But historically, Q3 is always our lowest-volume and typically lowest-priced quarter for ammonia. And then when you get back into the
application season in Q4, you see more of that ag business come through again. And so I wouldn't expect that to be anything different
this year than it is in every other year. And as Bert said, we've got the right plans in place to be able to manage the inventory.
It also helps that we're entering the period of the year where we've got most planned maintenance and some downtime. And so the
combination of some incremental exports, some of the industrial business that we've taken on as well as the planned maintenance, we
feel very comfortable with managing the inventory situation.
 
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean I think, what you'd see is in limited locations, it's actually is labor cost and your ability to lock in fixed cost labor is as
important if not more so in some cases, than absolute gas cost as you'd expect new capacities to be added where it is being added. So
places like Nigeria, Iran and Russia are places where you can actually get fixed labor cost. And in a place like that, current economics if
you can get reasonable gas cost and manage with -- manage the political risk situation, I'd expect there to be some level of build in those
locations. And I think you've seen kind of that -- those announcements here and there including people like EuroChem and others
looking at incremental units.
I think the challenge in North America is that the labor cost because it's on a reimbursable basis and not on a LSTK basis, no one is
willing to take that risk is that urea prices would have to rise quite a bit over where they are today for someone to really take a serious run
at it. And if anyone's talking about or directionally thinking about it, it just means they're completely inexperienced in terms of dealing
with major construction projects over here or just not that financially astute because we just don't see the current price stack as being
supportive of new builds here in North America.
By the way, if you find someone that wants to build, we'll sell them a plant for the cost of new construction.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
It's a fair offer, Vincent.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I'll give you the general and then let Bert, kind of, dive into more of the specifics. I think what you're seeing is, based on where coal prices
are, we absolutely believe that Chinese coal-based capacity is the marginal production capacity globally, particularly given where gas
price is in Europe today.
And so we do think that there is a fair bit of capacity that gets campaigned. And it runs for a portion of the year or runs at slightly below
 -- or somewhat below 100% rates for portions of the year. And what -- that's why their operating rates, depending upon what
publication you look at and what the denominator they use, is somewhere in the 60% to 70% range. So we do think that there is a fair bit
of capacity that can turn on and economically, will turn on when it's profitable to export. And so I do know that there's a sort of a bear
thesis out there that says upside in pricing is somewhat limited because of this overhang or this shelf-up capacity.
 
And I'd say, yes, there probably is some truth to that. I don't see urea going back to $450 or $500 anytime soon. I just -- I think that bids
in way too many plants in the interim, and people can find a way to make reasonable money as price comes up.
But the price indications from India, from Brazil, from the world in total in terms of the demand side bid in that production in the China,
and the world really needed those tons. And I think as our first half results indicate, even if price doesn't go up dramatically, we're very
comfortable operating in this sort of environment we can generate a lot of cash.
And I do think our view over the next  years is a somewhat tightening S&D balance going forward, which means that we don't see prices
retreating versus where they are today. They may not double, but they're not going to retreat.
And so I think the overarching view is, I think China will be there to export when the world demands those tons, it'll be sort of the flywheel
that gears up or down depending upon what global demand is. And it's really going to be cost curve-driven because they're much more
economically -- or active in the much more economically rational way now. Bert, you got...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean I think Don, in that regard, the U.S. remains an import-driven marketplace, and we need to attract still a fairly sizable amount of
tonnage coming here, particularly when Bert's team is exporting out of diesel, even requires more tonnage come in this direction. And it's
always a question in terms of where those exporting regions go with their tons when they're looking for the best netback. And so the U.S.
has to bid those tons away from India, from Brazil, from Europe, from other places in order to get them here and then someone's got to
get them into the marketplace. And what we've seen during periods of time, even during fairly, what I'd call, normal operating conditions,
is you get some spikiness in market depending upon the particular year in question, and then it has to do with availability of product,
when and where people are applying and planting because there's a high urgency factor when they're doing the fieldwork.
And so that's one of the benefits that we have with in-market plants and the distribution network that we've developed, which is we
typically can capture some of that when it pops up. It just happened this year. It was a little bit more prolonged. But we've had river
issues in the past. We've had rail line embargoes on some of the major rail carriers, other things like that, that have created these kind of
opportunities on a more spot basis.
This year, I'd say, it was a little more widespread. But that is kind of the power of our system, which is we can capture that when the
opportunities present themselves.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Mark, I think in a lot of cases, the U.S. acts as a little bit of a clearing house for some of the tons where there is timing differences
between when there's enough inventory for exporters to send it out and where the demand regions actually need to consume it.
So I think that during those shoulder periods, NOLA will probably trade at a bit of a discount to international parity just because there's
not that much demand in some of those regions. And then I think there's other times of the year where NOLA's going to trade at parity if
not a bit of a premium if there's high demand periods like we saw earlier this year.
I also think the trade flows are realigning a bit better than where we were a couple of years ago. I think there were an awful lot of traders
and importers in the U.S. that really lost a lot of money over the last couple of years. And I think you've seen a number of the big names
dramatically scale back trading operations and some of that activity in response to that. And I think there's just more discipline because
the people in the channel that are taking inventory positions, it's not to their benefit to see prices fall after they've already committed. So
 
I think people are being a little bit more responsible about the volume of tons they're bringing in. And the inland price, back to the earlier
comment from Don, it wouldn't surprise me to see a little bit of our a gapping out between inland price and NOLA price just if you end up
with NOLA being kind of, again the liquidity clearing house for the world during periods of time.
I don't think you'll see that price necessarily reflected back inland because you don't have the bad behavior that existed before. So I think
there's a lot more rationality taking place and that's a good thing.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean the other, I think, point to highlight is, the side-dress of ammonia extending out is not unprecedented. Before we've had kind of
late wet springs and you see ammonia application on the side-dress that -- through the I states in particular, that has moved out through
June and into July. And as Bert said, if you look at the total amount of nutrient tons that went down, it's more reflective of the kind of
numbers that we're thinking about from acreage, not in "overapplication" of nitrogen in any way.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, and I actually think first half volume was up, not down. So...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
So it was Q2 that was down, but overall, it was -- first half was up. And again, we really think about this business in halves, not in
quarters. Because I think there's pretty good shipment in Q1.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Think about halves, not quarters.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
So first of all, thanks for the comment. I think the whole team did an outstanding job this spring. And we do well when things are good,
but really when it's challenged -- when there are challenges out there, it's when the flexibility of the network really -- and the capability
of the people really shine. Bert, do you want to handle the urea, did it go down or inventory question?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
And -- but I think, P.J., your question about did it go to ground versus is it sitting in a shed someplace, our experience with UAN, which is
the vast majority of product that we shipped out in July was for prompt delivery and application, which is why we didn't launch the UAN
fill program until just earlier this week because we were still seeing demand at spring pricing level, indicates that people weren't stuffing
this product into bins and tanks because typically, there is a price reset when you leave the application season and moving to the
shoulder season.
So all the stuff that we were selling through June and even into July was at spring pricing indicating to us that all of it was going to
ground. There was no one that was going to put that stuff into a warehouse because that's a long hold period for relatively firm pricing.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
And P.J., on your second question around free cash flow and how we think about that. We have a very, very high conversion rate of
EBITDA into free cash on this asset base, and so it puts a high bar out there for us in the way of acquisitions. Because our focus really is
cash flow per share. That's what we want to drive accretion on.
 
And so are we interested in growth? Absolutely. Are we interested in M&A? Sure. Does it have to be accretive on a cash flow per share
since basis after we're all said and done? It absolutely does. So we're looking at things, but if it doesn't pass that test, then we're not
going to execute it. And by the way, we've got great other options, which is share price that yields a free cash flow yield that is still  to 3x
better than anybody else in the space. So I think we've got a long way to go in terms of our own share price, and we don't feel like there's
a gun at our head that we have to go and do something that is dilutive.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, I mean I think on the, Duffy, (sic) [Sean] on the tonnage, if you just look back the last couple of years, we're sort of between  million
and  million product tons given sort of what the maintenance schedule looks like in the particular product mix. That's not a bad
estimate because we basically are -- as long as the plants aren't down for maintenance, they're running 24/7 and over the course of a
year, we ship what we make.
So just like the first half of each of the last  years where we've been in 9.8 million, the back half has been relatively consistent as well. So
I think that's a pretty good guide for what the volumes are going to look like second half.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean I think it's also fair to say that we're probably more bearish on both yield and acres than USDA or in fact than a lot of people are.
So to us, that's acres next year. Both corn price where it goes off the board this year after harvest and acres next year are going to be, in
our opinion, stronger than where the market's pegging it today.
 
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean I think when you look at stocks to use down in the mid-single digits, which is where we believe there -- it's going to end this
year, that you need 95-plus million acres just to get back to where you began this year, which is also a relative low. And so we had this
year, at least initial intentions, being in sort of  million,  million acres. And I would expect if next year's  million, you're probably
back in the  million to  million the year after because I just think the price signals are there.
I also think we expect ongoing and continued weakness in beans and whether that's because African swine fever culling of the hog
population or ongoing kind of trade concerns or just other related issues and also bumper yields and other growing regions on the bean
side. I think you end up with very, very strong incentives on certainly a midterm basis -- short and midterm basis for farmers to grow corn.
And so we're -- that really is a backdrop against our bullish view of corn and also nitrogen demand in North America. Bert, you got...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes I mean, clearly what I was talking about, John, with respect to expansions are putting in a whole new ammonia/urea complex, not
incremental debottlenecks. Because I think generally speaking, once you've got infrastructure in place, the debottleneck is going to have
much favorable economics to building a whole new plant. And it was really, whether it's a greenfield or a brownfield, building a new
ammonia plant and then upgrade the facility. But we're certainly evaluating similarly debottleneck opportunities and additional
flexibility.
I think this year, in particular, highlights the value of product flexibility and the more leverage Bert can pull in order to manage what the
product slate mix look like, the better off our returns are. And given our strong cash flow and ability to invest some of that into some
high-return projects that add flexibility to the network, but are still fairly low cost in terms of the scale of a new plant is a great return.
So we're looking at that kind of stuff too. But most of that can be accomplished within the framework of our normal CapEx budget. When
 
we say $400 million to $450 million that includes some growth capital in there. And I think that's a pretty good number for us going
forward and gives us some upside in terms of both product mix, flexibility, margin and absolute tonnage.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes I mean, Michael, I think look, our view has always been that there's too much money at stake for those plants to run -- or not run. But
they're going to run and they're going to find some way to get those tons out whether it's send them to China and reexport them, send
them direct to India or Brazil and barter, do something in the way of an exchange. Our view is those plants have been running and will
continue to run. And I think the only time where you may see any sort of upset in that process is if they go down for maintenance or
turnaround issues and are not able to get either technical support or a catalyst or the critical vessels to bring them back online.
 
And so I think that's really where you might see a pressure point. But that's a little bit longer wavelength. That's not this quarter or next
quarter. I wouldn't anticipate. So I think those plants have been running and they continue to run. Bert, do you...
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
Martin Jarosick, Vice President Investor Relations for CF. With me today are Tony Will, CEO; Chris Bohn, CFO; and Bert Frost, Senior Vice
Now let me introduce Tony Will, our President and CEO.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Martin, and good morning, everyone. Last night, we posted our financial results for the first  months of 2019, in which we
generated adjusted EBITDA of $1.3 billion, after taking into account the items detailed in our earnings release. These results reflect
higher year-over-year global nitrogen prices, lower natural gas costs and continued strong execution across all elements of our business.
I especially want to highlight the great work of the CF team. Throughout this year, we have run our assets well, managed through
logistical challenges and ensured our customers received product when and where they needed it. Most importantly, we did it all safely.
Our 12-month rolling recordable incident rate was 0.61 incidents per 200,000 work hours, significantly better than industry averages.
Our team's great work, combined with positive industry fundamentals, drove a 21% increase in adjusted EBITDA compared to this point
 
last year, and we continue to efficiently convert the EBITDA we generate into available free cash flow.
On a trailing 12-month basis, our free cash flow is $830 million, which today provides our investors with an industry-best free cash flow
yield of 8%. As we've said before, we believe we will generate superior free cash flow through the cycle compared to most of our global
competitors. That's because our cash generation capability is built on an enduring set of structural and operational advantages. Our
structural advantages are clear: access to low-cost North American natural gas, operating in the import-dependent North American
region, the largest and best production and distribution network in North America and the long-term demand growth for nitrogen. We
also consistently focus on increasing our operational advantages to drive further margin growth. We do this by investing in our assets
and people, and actively managing the company through the cycle. The cumulative effect of this disciplined choices that we make is
clearly evident in our performance. We have the highest ammonia plant asset utilization in North America. We have reduced controllable
cost per ton since 2016. We have among the lowest SG&A expense as a percent of sales in our industry, and we have driven significant
reduction in our fixed charges, which Chris will discuss in more detail.
Slide  demonstrates the impact of our superior cash generation. Over the last  years, we have dramatically reduced our outstanding
debt, increased our shareholder participation of the business through share repurchases and accretive growth, while also returning
significant cash to shareholders in the form of dividends. These actions have both strengthened our balance sheet and driven nearly 10%
accretion for shareholders since 2017. Looking ahead, we expect to build on this track record in  and beyond. We believe our
operational performance will consistently deliver sales volumes between 19.5 million and  million product tons each year. We continue
to project that global demand for nitrogen will outpace net capacity additions over the next  years, further tightening the global supply
and demand balance.
Additionally, the forward curve for North American natural gas remains very attractive compared to the rest of the world. We believe
these factors, along with our operational excellence and strong balance sheet will continue to drive superior cash generation and
shareholder returns in the years ahead.
With that, let me turn it over to Bert, who will talk more about current market conditions and our outlook. Then Chris will cover our
financial position before I offer some closing remarks. Bert?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Chris. Before we move on to your questions, I want to provide some summary comments to frame how we're thinking about the
future. We had a great first  quarters of 2019, with adjusted EBITDA increasing 21% year-on-year. On a last 12-month basis, we
generated $830 million of free cash flow, which is truly a fantastic year. We also have the highest conversion efficiency of EBITDA to free
cash flow in the industry. With all the free cash that we generated in the last  months, we have returned approximately $750 million to
shareholders through share repurchases and will have retired an additional $750 million of debt by the end of this year. That
accomplishes our objective of bringing our balance sheet back into investment-grade metrics and drops our annual interest expense well
below $200 million per year going forward.
Looking ahead, we're excited about our outlook for 2020. While there are always moving pieces, we think that overall  will be
similar to 2019. As we've explained, we expect our sales volumes to be similar from year-to-year. Our  global cost curve projects
average nutrient prices to be in a similar range as 2019. And the NYMEX Henry Hub forward curve suggests that natural gas costs in
 will be lower, which all means we expect another fantastic year in 2020. And since we have already repaired our balance sheet, all
of the free cash flow we generate will be available for us to deploy for value-creating growth or to return to shareholders.
 
This company is a highly efficient cash-generating machine. We've driven over 10% accretion for our shareholders in the last  years by
investing in accretive growth and share repurchases while fixing our balance sheet at the same time. With our balance sheet now
investment grade, we look forward to driving additional shareholder value by continuing to invest in accretive growth and further share
repurchases.
With that, operator, we will now open the call to your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, Chris. I mean look, I think from a capital allocation perspective, we have said for a long time we want to get the balance sheet back
into investment-grade metrics. And with the recent announcement, I think we're there. We've got -- managed our annual fixed charges
down to a level that it's very comfortable, even in sort of trough conditions of '16, '17, we'd still be net pretty significantly
cash-flow-positive during those kind of trough conditions. And we think that, that's representative of an investment-grade rating, and
we're very comfortable with the sustainability of the balance sheet through kind of down cycles. So once that was behind us, then we look
at, obviously, sustaining capital to maintain what is the highest operating rates in the industry on our ammonia plants, is this number
one, call for capital; number two would be, if we've got accretive growth where we can buy assets in a way that we believe creates value
for our shareholders, then that would be number two. And in the absence of doing those things, then I think we look to return cash to
shareholders in the form of share repurchases as our preferred mechanism, given that we already have a pretty robust dividend that's in
place today. So that's kind of our priorities.
We're relatively open to geographic expansion. I do think when you start clustering assets together, you're able to better realize synergies
from larger network effects than if you've got them spread around. But I think at the end of the day, it all comes down to as long as
there's a set of assets that we believe we can run well and really leverage our organizational capabilities against, then we'd be open to
considering a number of places. But it all really depends upon price point. And they've got to be at a place where we feel it's creating
value for shareholders because our alternative is to buy back more of what's already the best asset base in nitrogen of the world, which is
our own share. So instead of overpaying for poor quality assets, we just buy more of our own.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
I mean I think the other thing I would add to that is, with LNG prices having fallen dramatically on an MMBtu equivalency, coal price has
to come down in order to be viable. And China, at the end of the day is still a coal-driven economy. And so back to Bert's point, while
there is, I think, a bunch of external factors that are -- have provided some pressure on coal, there is increasing demand for coal
utilization. And we think, ultimately, that ends up supporting prices there. So we're not terribly concerned about the top end of the cost
curve doing something dramatic.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
John, no, I think the issue right now is based on operating rates globally of ammonia plants and where Tampa ammonia price has been
settling lately, we look at ammonia debottlenecks as not a terribly interesting proposition from a standpoint of a return on investment.
Now that said, there is a significant uplift in margin per nutrient ton going from ammonia into the upgraded products, urea or UAN, and
we are looking at potentially debottlenecking on the upgrade side. But that -- the benefit of that is it doesn't add any nutrient ton
capacity to the global S&D, it just changes the form of nitrogen. And those kind of debottlenecks are, I would say, relatively efficient from
an overall cost perspective and largely fit within our $400 million to $450 million a year. It wouldn't take us outside of that band. So I
think those are certainly things that we're looking at and considering, but it doesn't really change the cash flow dynamic on the business
or what we've talked about.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean I think there's a real question as to whether or not the authority that's being espoused by that individual actually exists within
that office or whether that requires -- that's a -- I think at some level, that's more of a Supreme Court-related issue because it's more of a
state's rights versus federal government thing. So it's not obvious to us that, that power actually exists within that office, but that's for
other people, I think, to decide. And I'd say, that is a huge kind of macro U.S. economy kind of decision if it was made. It would affect not
only our business but the economy as a whole. And I don't expect -- I think it's a lot of rhetoric, actually. I don't actually expect something
like that to show up.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, Steve. I mean I think a couple of things are going on. I would focus more on the 9-month numbers for ammonia than I would on the
third quarter because the third quarter really has virtually no agricultural ammonia. And so all of the ammonia that moved in the quarter
were really driven off of industrial kind of contracts, which tend to be much more Tampa-based pricing, in general. And the Tampa price
has been pretty low, which why -- which is why we're not that excited about further ammonia debottleneck because they just -- they don't
pay out.
We do run our upgrade plants kind of at 100% capacity. And so that's why if we're going to be able to shift more ammonia into upgrade,
we're going to have to be doing some of the debottlenecks that were asked about earlier, I think, by John. But we have a great in-market
distribution network for ammonia. And you saw that in the second quarter when we moved a lot of that volume and got very good price
realization and very good ton movement.
Clearly, I think what you've seen is with the Magellan pipeline going down, you've had Koch and Enid announce a big urea debottleneck
expansion, which again is reducing the amount of excess ammonia that they have. You've seen other people make moves away from
anhydrous into upgraded products. We have the benefit at Verdigris of being able to barge ammonia out of that plant, either for use
elsewhere in the system or to be able to export it. And so I think we still have a fair bit of flexibility relative to the plants and other people
are making moves to try to reduce their dependence and cost structure of moving ammonia around the system. But the -- our in-market
terminals do provide a really nice lift for us during the application season. But the spring tends to be the big application. As Bert
mentioned earlier, as we look out the window here in Chicago, it's snowing, so I'm not sure we're going to see much of a fall application
season this year. But what you don't get in the fall in the way of ammonia just puts increased value on the upgraded tons as we get into
spring.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
And we're actually one of the few people that have -- look, we announced, I think, about a year ago that our 5-year extension with NGC,
National Gas Company of Trinidad had been extended. And so the price at which we're buying is commensurate with historical kind of
Carib-based gas deals. Most of the other producers on the island have annualized through their contracts and have had to renegotiate.
So we're -- we believe we're in a favorable cost position relative to the other producers on the island. And as Chris said, I think the results
you're seeing there and that's a -- is a onetime tax issue as opposed to an ongoing operating performance issue.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
And Don, the question about the in-market premium, which did kind of blow out during the spring, given logistical challenges and how
we're viewing that kind of next year. I think given the in-market distribution and production that we have, we always expect to at least
capture kind of the transportation spread but what we find typically during high demand periods or short replenishment windows is that
that's when the power of that network really shines. And the last couple of years have seen more volatility as opposed to more
smoothness in terms of the operations and what's required and demanded and what the market is willing to pay for. And I think that
there's a little bit of more of the same kind of that's just embedded in terms of how the spring runs, particularly when right now you've
got NOLA trading at such a discount to the international space.
What that really means is that very few imports are coming this direction because if you're an exporter out in the Middle East or some
place else, you can get better values by going to other parts of the world. So North America is not paying enough to attract imported tons
at this point, which means that, that's going to further sort of stress the system relative to be able to resupply in the market, and again,
that's when our network shines. So from our perspective, the fact that during the low demand volume quarter, Q3, prices lag a little bit
relative to the international markets, net-net, that's sort of not a bad thing.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Well, I just -- I just don't see it happening. And again, anyone that's interested in building one, come send them our way, and we'll sell
them a plant at replacement cost. I'm happy to do that. I think you got to get urea prices sustainably up north of $350 on average for a
full year to even think about it. And then if you're going to do that, you're still better off building in Nigeria or Russia than you are
building over here just because labor costs are so uncontrollable here.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
President, Investor Relations for CF. With me today are Tony Will, CEO; Chris Bohn, CFO; and Bert Frost, Senior Vice President of Sales,
Market Development and Supply Chain.
CF Industries reported its full year and fourth quarter  results yesterday afternoon. On this call, we'll review the CF Industries results
in detail, discuss our outlook and then host a question-and-answer session.
Statements made on this call and in the presentation on our website that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any statements. More detailed
information about factors that may affect our performance may be found in our filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.
Also, you'll find the reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures in the press release and presentation posted on our website.
Now let me introduce Tony Will, our President and CEO.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Martin, and good morning, everyone. Last night, we posted our financial results for the full year 2019, in which we generated
adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 billion, a nearly 15% increase over 2018. We efficiently converted our EBITDA into cash, generating over $900
million in free cash for the year.
As shown on Slides  and  of our materials, we are the most efficient converter of EBITDA into cash in the industry. Additionally, we
have the best free cash flow yield. These results reflect the impact of lower year-over-year natural gas costs for the company, higher
 
product price realizations and outstanding execution by the CF team. We operated our plants extremely well all year and set a new
quarterly ammonia production record in the fourth quarter.
For the full year, we produced more than 10.2 million tons of ammonia and delivered sales volumes of 19.5 million product tons. Most
impressively, we did all these safely. Our 12-month rolling recordable incident rate at the end of  was 0.48 incidents per 200,000
work hours. This is the lowest year-end rate ever at CF. We are tremendously proud of this achievement, and I want to thank everyone at
CF who makes safety their top priority every day.
In 2019, we delivered a 1-year total shareholder return of 13%, which was well above each member of our fertilizer peer group for the
year, as you can see on Slides  and 10. We have outperformed our peer group index over 1, 3, 5,  and  years for total shareholder
returns, and we were the single best-performing company overall but one of these time periods. We believe this consistent long-term
outperformance relative to our peers reflects the enduring structural and operational strengths of our company.
Our structural advantages are clear. We provide a nutrient that is nondiscretionary and for which demand continues to grow. We are
among the lowest cost producers of nitrogen in the world due to our access to low-cost and plentiful North American natural gas, and we
operate in import-dependent regions.
We also have created operational advantages for our company by investing in our assets and our people. We have the highest ammonia
utilization rate in North America, and our production sites have the flexibility to switch quickly between products to meet demand and
maximize profits. We also have outstanding logistics capabilities in North America's most extensive distribution network. These
advantages have enabled us to efficiently generate significant cash flow.
Since the beginning of 2017, we have deployed nearly $4 billion in cash to strengthen our balance sheet, increase shareholder
participation in our nitrogen business and return cash to shareholders. We believe we are the best-positioned company in the industry to
continue to build on this track record of creating long-term shareholder value in the years ahead.
Looking forward to 2020, we remain focused on safe and reliable operations and disciplined management of the company. As we've said
before, we believe our operational performance will consistently deliver sales volumes between  million and  million product tons
each year, and we expect to do this with one of the lowest controllable cost structures per product ton in our industry.
With that, let me turn it over to Bert, who will talk more about current market conditions and our outlook, then Chris will cover our
financial position before I offer some closing remarks. Bert?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thanks, Chris. Before we move on to your questions, I want to thank everyone at CF for their great work throughout 2019. Their focus on
safety, operating reliability and delivering for our customers continues to drive our success as a company.
As you've heard from Bert and Chris, lower global energy costs have pressured product prices in both Q4 of  and Q1 of 
compared to the prior year periods, and we expect this trend to continue through the first half of the year despite the expected increase in
corn acres. The impact of lower year-over-year product prices should be partially offset by lower gas costs, but our results are much more
sensitive to movements in product prices than they are to movements in gas costs, as you can see on Slide 13.
So as we sit here today, in the early part of 2020, with most of the year still to play for and understanding the highly volatile and
sometimes unpredictable nature of global commodity prices, we would expect that full year  EBITDA would fall somewhere within
the range of our  and  results, but our focus is on free cash flow rather than EBITDA. And as a reminder, in both  and in
2019, we generated over $900 million in free cash flow. So given that, we would expect to continue executing on our capital deployment
priorities of regaining investment grade while continuing our share buyback program, investing in the most attractive shares in the
industry.
Longer term, our company remains among the best positioned in the world. Our structural advantages are clear. We produce the only
nondiscretionary nutrient, nitrogen. We have access to low-cost North American natural gas, and we operate in import-dependent
regions. We believe these advantages will continue to drive strong free cash flow generation through the cycle and enable us to build on
our track record of creating superior long-term shareholder value compared to our competitors.
With that, operator, we will now open the call to your questions.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, I completely agree. I think, if anything, this is going to be a negative impact on supply from -- coming out of China as opposed to
negatively impacting demand. Because on the demand side, people are still going to eat. So -- and as Bert says, whether it's coalmines
or urea plants, those are the places where I think you're going to see a reduction in labor hours. So we would expect it to be kind of --
nothing like this is ever a net positive. But from a humanity perspective, but relative to urea supply, it probably will tighten it up.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
But I think, as we sit here today, Jonas, we're getting close to the end of winter, although it's snowing in Chicago. But as you look at the
number of cold days left, with -- it's been a mild winter. Storage levels have increased. Gas production has -- continues to be very high. In
our view, there's probably a price pressure coming instead of this is the low point. And so we're -- we are very positive in terms of buying
daily or month ahead as opposed to taking long-term lock positions.
The other issue, though, is in terms of the forward curve, you can't lock  years out or  years out at today's values because the curve
starts increasing. And so that's why, as Bert said, there's a bit of a mixed bag in terms of how you approach it. But structurally, we're very
optimistic about low gas costs through the balance of the year.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean, I think -- Adam, I'll give you sort of my quick take, and then I'll throw it over to Bert for the real answer. But my view on this
one is the companies that are -- or the region that is probably the most at risk from an economic standpoint, I think, is going to be
Trinidad because most of the favorable Caribbean gas-indexed contracts are kind of rolling off or have rolled off and the renegotiation
with NGC has happened at higher price levels. You've seen a couple of plants on the island actually close as a result of not being
competitive anymore. And given that Europe is no longer really a destination option for that production, I think that puts a pretty big
challenge on those plants.
Relative to Russian production and in the U.S., we're still fine. If you look at UAN, the margin structure is still, well, superior to that of
ammonia. And on a dollar per nutrient ton, it's still a very attractive product for us to make relative to having excess ammonia. The -- I
think anyone, though, that has an ability and flexibility in their system to upgrade into different product types, like we do, into producing
more urea, urea liquor, DEF and nitric acid and not making UAN, that turns out to be a great margin opportunity for us. And I think some
of the Russian producers are making more AN and doing some other things with upgraded products as well.
So our view is the -- over the longer term, I think you're right, given where values are today to a farmer, you might see incremental growth
in terms of switching toward UAN in the near term over the longer-term because it is a more capital-intensive process to make UAN than
it is urea. You've got to earn a fair rate of return on that incremental capital, otherwise, people stop investing in it.
And so we would expect margins to kind of -- once you get through the trade flow rebalance to get back to, as Bert said earlier, kind of
net neutral between UAN and urea or even positive UAN. So I think this is kind of like what we saw in '16 and '17, where the new capacity
came on and it took  year or  to -- for trade flows to rebalance and for us to really kind of get our sea legs under us. And the same thing
is going on right now globally with UAN in the European anti-dumping situation. Bert?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Well, the ammonia system from an inventory standpoint is there's a cap on it because it's really sitting, for the most part, with  major
producers. Coke, Nutrien and CF are the ones that have the cryogenic storage tanks or terminals in-market. And while there's some
storage at plant locations, generally speaking, it's not more than 50,000 or 100,000 tons.
And so the vast majority of the inventory sits with the  producers, and there's a limit in terms of what that looks like. So in order to get
the  million tons out, you actually need relatively -- given a weak fall, you need to be able to resupply some of those tanks. So if you end
up in a situation where weather is not cooperating in terms of being able to dump the tank and then resupply it and get more than  turn
in the spring, it's going to push farmers toward upgraded products simply because you can't get the amount of nutrients that you need to
-- from the ammonia system.
That said, given the weak fall, we think the tank situation is relatively full and ready to go. So I think in terms of whether you get to the 
million tons is really dependent upon kind of how early the fields open up to begin ammonia application and how long that lasts for. And
if you have a situation like we had last spring, you're not going to see anywhere close to  million tons go down.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. I mean, I think from an ESG perspective, there's  or  plants here that we're focused on. The first is that nitrogen is actually a
product that is very beneficial to, from a global perspective, carbon emissions. And the reason for that is, even though agriculture, sort of,
it depends upon which agency you look at, is estimated somewhere between 25% and 30% of -- responsible for 25% to 30% of
aggregate greenhouse gas emissions, the vast majority of that comes from land use. And so as you are cutting down carbon sequestering
for us in order to cultivate those acres, you're releasing a lot of carbon and you furthermore don't have the mechanism to further
sequester carbon going forward.
And so the use of nitrogen allows you to increase crop density and increase yield per acre, which means that, in order to feed the world's
population, you need less acres in use. And net-net, the world is a much lower-carbon footprint by producing and using nitrogen than
you are not producing nitrogen and cutting down trees in order to feed the growing population. So that's #1, which is actually our product
on a net basis is beneficial instead of negative.
The second issue is, particularly with our new plants, we're among the lowest carbon-intensity producer globally. And with our plants
turning on, you've got Chinese coal-based plants that shut down and that, again, is sort of good from a global perspective. So I think this
 
is one of those questions you have to ask writ large instead of very locally.
Now in addition to that, we're very focused on responsible use of the product and have invested heavily in kind of the 4-hour plus
program, which is teaching farmers best management practices to both reduce nitrogen loss to the environment but also reduce
volatilization in a way that creates nitrous oxide or other emissions that are high from a carbon-intensity perspective.
And then finally, we are investing in our asset base in order to further reduce what our footprint looks like on a sort of act locally kind of
basis. And so I think if you look across all of those things that we're doing, we have an exemplary, yes, ESG standpoint. And we're
reporting on a comprehensive GRI basis from a transparency and disclosure perspective. We're one of a very few number of companies
that actually reports on the GRI index on a comprehensive basis instead of just on a spot or line item basis. So we feel very good about
our ESG profile.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Jeff, let me handle the first part of the question, and I'll throw it over to Bert to deal with India, which is, as you think about Brent coming
down, there's no doubt that anyone that's receiving oil indexed-based LNG or gas is in a more favorable position today than they were a
year ago.
That said, the real marginal production costs globally is still Chinese anthracite coal. And Brent price does not really affect the Chinese
anthracite coal price directly. And in fact, as Bert indicated, whether it's coronavirus or other things going on, you've seen actual coal
price strengthen a little bit. So the high end of the cost curve has gone up or stayed flat relative to what looks like a bit of a windfall for
some other people in more third or early fourth quartile. So it's not really affecting global pricing today, the fact that Brent has come
down. Bert, you want to deal with the Indian situation?
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes, the one thing with respect to that is, despite new production coming on in India that -- Bert mentioned this earlier, you saw
aggregate production within India remain relatively flat. And so that means, whether it's because of production problems that the older
plants or just the fact that they're not economic to run them relative to being importing, you haven't seen this negatively impact India's
imports. And so that, I think, is a very optimistic time around global S&D balance going forward.
 
W. Anthony Will CF Industries Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Chris, I'll handle the first one on the production side, and then I'll let Bert talk about our UAN programs. We're among the lowest
absolute cost producer globally. And so our assets should be the last ones to turn off, not the first. And there is enough production out
there on a global basis that, if we were to curtail, I wouldn't expect that to move the market a bit because there's sufficient supply
elsewhere in the world.
And so our business model is all around asset utilization. Our uptime and production efficiency and onstream factor is among the highest
in the world and, certainly, the highest in the U.S. And because we're able to achieve those kind of levels, we basically get kind of the
equivalent of an additional ammonia plant worth of production compared to the asset utilization rates that our North American
competitors are able to achieve. So that's a huge competitive advantage when you think about the capital that goes into it.
And even at the low prices that we're seeing out there for ammonia, it's still a very attractive product from a margin standpoint for us.
And again, we're -- we would be kind of the last producer to shut down, not the first. And on a full year basis, last year, we still generated
21% gross margin in our ammonia segment, which is pretty remarkable that -- in a lot of businesses that talk about that being a
depressing situation, for an industrial business to achieve 21% gross margin for the full year is pretty outstanding result.
 